Privacy Policy

Last modified: March 1, 2012 (view archived versions)

There are many different ways you can use our services – to search for and share information, to communicate with other people or to create new content. When you share information with us, for example by creating a Google Account, we can make those services even better – to show you more relevant search results and ads, to help you connect with people or to make sharing with others quicker and easier. As you use our services, we want you to be clear how we’re using information and the ways in which you can protect your privacy.

Our Privacy Policy explains:

    What information we collect and why we collect it.
    How we use that information.
    The choices we offer, including how to access and update information.

We’ve tried to keep it as simple as possible, but if you’re not familiar with terms like cookies, IP addresses, pixel tags and browsers, then read about these key terms first. Your privacy matters to Google so whether you are new to Google or a long-time user, please do take the time to get to know our practices – and if you have any questions contact us.
Information we collect

We collect information to provide better services to all of our users – from figuring out basic stuff like which language you speak, to more complex things like which ads you’ll find most useful or the people who matter most to you online.

We collect information in two ways:

    Information you give us. For example, many of our services require you to sign up for a Google Account. When you do, we’ll ask for personal information, like your name, email address, telephone number or credit card. If you want to take full advantage of the sharing features we offer, we might also ask you to create a publicly visible Google Profile, which may include your name and photo.

    Information we get from your use of our services. We may collect information about the services that you use and how you use them, like when you visit a website that uses our advertising services or you view and interact with our ads and content. This information includes:

        Device information

        We may collect device-specific information (such as your hardware model, operating system version, unique device identifiers, and mobile network information including phone number). Google may associate your device identifiers or phone number with your Google Account.

        Log information

        When you use our services or view content provided by Google, we may automatically collect and store certain information in server logs. This may include:
            details of how you used our service, such as your search queries.
            telephony log information like your phone number, calling-party number, forwarding numbers, time and date of calls, duration of calls, SMS routing information and types of calls.
            Internet protocol address.
            device event information such as crashes, system activity, hardware settings, browser type, browser language, the date and time of your request and referral URL.
            cookies that may uniquely identify your browser or your Google Account.

        Location information

        When you use a location-enabled Google service, we may collect and process information about your actual location, like GPS signals sent by a mobile device. We may also use various technologies to determine location, such as sensor data from your device that may, for example, provide information on nearby Wi-Fi access points and cell towers.

        Unique application numbers

        Certain services include a unique application number. This number and information about your installation (for example, the operating system type and application version number) may be sent to Google when you install or uninstall that service or when that service periodically contacts our servers, such as for automatic updates.

        Local storage

        We may collect and store information (including personal information) locally on your device using mechanisms such as browser web storage (including HTML 5) and application data caches.

        Cookies and anonymous identifiers

        We use various technologies to collect and store information when you visit a Google service, and this may include sending one or more cookies or anonymous identifiers to your device. We also use cookies and anonymous identifiers when you interact with services we offer to our partners, such as advertising services or Google features that may appear on other sites.

How we use information we collect

We use the information we collect from all of our services to provide, maintain, protect and improve them, to develop new ones, and to protect Google and our users. We also use this information to offer you tailored content – like giving you more relevant search results and ads.

We may use the name you provide for your Google Profile across all of the services we offer that require a Google Account. In addition, we may replace past names associated with your Google Account so that you are represented consistently across all our services. If other users already have your email, or other information that identifies you, we may show them your publicly visible Google Profile information, such as your name and photo.

When you contact Google, we may keep a record of your communication to help solve any issues you might be facing. We may use your email address to inform you about our services, such as letting you know about upcoming changes or improvements.

We use information collected from cookies and other technologies, like pixel tags, to improve your user experience and the overall quality of our services. For example, by saving your language preferences, we’ll be able to have our services appear in the language you prefer. When showing you tailored ads, we will not associate a cookie or anonymous identifier with sensitive categories, such as those based on race, religion, sexual orientation or health.

We may combine personal information from one service with information, including personal information, from other Google services – for example to make it easier to share things with people you know. We will not combine DoubleClick cookie information with personally identifiable information unless we have your opt-in consent.

We will ask for your consent before using information for a purpose other than those that are set out in this Privacy Policy.

Google processes personal information on our servers in many countries around the world. We may process your personal information on a server located outside the country where you live.
Transparency and choice

People have different privacy concerns. Our goal is to be clear about what information we collect, so that you can make meaningful choices about how it is used. For example, you can:

    Review and control certain types of information tied to your Google Account by using Google Dashboard.
    View and edit your ads preferences, such as which categories might interest you, using the Ads Preferences Manager. You can also opt out of certain Google advertising services here.
    Use our editor to see and adjust how your Google Profile appears to particular individuals.
    Control who you share information with.
    Take information out of many of our services.

You may also set your browser to block all cookies, including cookies associated with our services, or to indicate when a cookie is being set by us. However, it’s important to remember that many of our services may not function properly if your cookies are disabled. For example, we may not remember your language preferences.
Information you share

Many of our services let you share information with others. Remember that when you share information publicly, it may be indexable by search engines, including Google. Our services provide you with different options on sharing and removing your content.
Accessing and updating your personal information

Whenever you use our services, we aim to provide you with access to your personal information. If that information is wrong, we strive to give you ways to update it quickly or to delete it – unless we have to keep that information for legitimate business or legal purposes. When updating your personal information, we may ask you to verify your identity before we can act on your request.

We may reject requests that are unreasonably repetitive, require disproportionate technical effort (for example, developing a new system or fundamentally changing an existing practice), risk the privacy of others, or would be extremely impractical (for instance, requests concerning information residing on backup tapes).

Where we can provide information access and correction, we will do so for free, except where it would require a disproportionate effort. We aim to maintain our services in a manner that protects information from accidental or malicious destruction. Because of this, after you delete information from our services, we may not immediately delete residual copies from our active servers and may not remove information from our backup systems.
Information we share

We do not share personal information with companies, organizations and individuals outside of Google unless one of the following circumstances apply:

    With your consent

    We will share personal information with companies, organizations or individuals outside of Google when we have your consent to do so. We require opt-in consent for the sharing of any sensitive personal information.

    With domain administrators

    If your Google Account is managed for you by a domain administrator (for example, for Google Apps users) then your domain administrator and resellers who provide user support to your organization will have access to your Google Account information (including your email and other data). Your domain administrator may be able to:
        view statistics regarding your account, like statistics regarding applications you install.
        change your account password.
        suspend or terminate your account access.
        access or retain information stored as part of your account.
        receive your account information in order to satisfy applicable law, regulation, legal process or enforceable governmental request.
        restrict your ability to delete or edit information or privacy settings.

    Please refer to your domain administrator’s privacy policy for more information.

    For external processing

    We provide personal information to our affiliates or other trusted businesses or persons to process it for us, based on our instructions and in compliance with our Privacy Policy and any other appropriate confidentiality and security measures.

    For legal reasons

    We will share personal information with companies, organizations or individuals outside of Google if we have a good-faith belief that access, use, preservation or disclosure of the information is reasonably necessary to:
        meet any applicable law, regulation, legal process or enforceable governmental request.
        enforce applicable Terms of Service, including investigation of potential violations.
        detect, prevent, or otherwise address fraud, security or technical issues.
        protect against harm to the rights, property or safety of Google, our users or the public as required or permitted by law.

We may share aggregated, non-personally identifiable information publicly and with our partners – like publishers, advertisers or connected sites. For example, we may share information publicly to show trends about the general use of our services.

If Google is involved in a merger, acquisition or asset sale, we will continue to ensure the confidentiality of any personal information and give affected users notice before personal information is transferred or becomes subject to a different privacy policy.
Information security

We work hard to protect Google and our users from unauthorized access to or unauthorized alteration, disclosure or destruction of information we hold. In particular:

    We encrypt many of our services using SSL.
    We offer you two step verification when you access your Google Account, and a Safe Browsing feature in Google Chrome.
    We review our information collection, storage and processing practices, including physical security measures, to guard against unauthorized access to systems.
    We restrict access to personal information to Google employees, contractors and agents who need to know that information in order to process it for us, and who are subject to strict contractual confidentiality obligations and may be disciplined or terminated if they fail to meet these obligations.

Application

Our Privacy Policy applies to all of the services offered by Google Inc. and its affiliates, including services offered on other sites (such as our advertising services), but excludes services that have separate privacy policies that do not incorporate this Privacy Policy.

Our Privacy Policy does not apply to services offered by other companies or individuals, including products or sites that may be displayed to you in search results, sites that may include Google services, or other sites linked from our services. Our Privacy Policy does not cover the information practices of other companies and organizations who advertise our services, and who may use cookies, pixel tags and other technologies to serve and offer relevant ads.
Enforcement

We regularly review our compliance with our Privacy Policy. We also adhere to several self regulatory frameworks. When we receive formal written complaints, we will contact the person who made the complaint to follow up. We work with the appropriate regulatory authorities, including local data protection authorities, to resolve any complaints regarding the transfer of personal data that we cannot resolve with our users directly.
Changes

Our Privacy Policy may change from time to time. We will not reduce your rights under this Privacy Policy without your explicit consent. We will post any privacy policy changes on this page and, if the changes are significant, we will provide a more prominent notice (including, for certain services, email notification of privacy policy changes). We will also keep prior versions of this Privacy Policy in an archive for your review.
Specific product practices

The following notices explain specific privacy practices with respect to certain Google products and services that you may use:

    Chrome and Chrome OS
    Books
    Wallet

 Google Chrome Privacy Notice
Archive date: February 20, 2014

The Google Privacy Policy describes how we treat personal information when you use Google's products and services, including when you use Chrome browser and Chrome OS to access those products and services.

This Google Chrome Privacy Notice describes the privacy practices that are specific to the Chrome family of products. This includes the Chrome browser, Chrome OS, Chromecast and Safe Browsing. Some of the features described in this Privacy Notice are available in other web browsers (e.g. you may choose to use Safe Browsing features in Mozilla Firefox), so remember that you should also read the privacy policy for the browser in which the features are running.

Not all of the features discussed in this Privacy Notice appear in all Chrome products. To keep things simple, however, we’re going to use the term "Chrome" on its own to refer to each of the products within the Chrome family. Where an individual Chrome product works in a different way we’ll be sure to highlight that.

For early adopters who want to test features that are still under development, we make available preview versions (also known as beta, dev and canary) of Chrome browser and Chrome OS in addition to the stable version. Although this Google Chrome Privacy Notice applies to the stable and preview versions, it may not be fully up to date when describing features still under development in the preview versions.

Google will notify you of any material changes to this policy, and you will always have the option to use Chrome in a way that does not send any personally identifiable information to Google, or to remove your information and discontinue using it.

For step-by-step guides to help manage your privacy preferences read our guide to Browsers, Google Chrome, Privacy and You
Information Google receives when you use Chrome

You do not need to provide any personally identifying information in order to use Chrome.

When you use any browser, including Chrome, to contact Google's servers, by default Google receives standard log information including your system’s IP address and one or more cookies. You can configure Chrome browser and Chrome OS to not accept cookies from Google or other sites. Learn more about configuring cookies and site data in Chrome browser and Chrome OS.

If you use Chrome to access other Google services, such as using the search engine on the Google homepage or checking Gmail, the fact that you are using Chrome does not cause Google to receive any special or additional personally identifying information about you.

In addition, some Chrome features may send limited additional information to Google or your default search engine:

    If you use the Multiple Users feature of Chrome browser, you can set up personalized copies of Chrome browser for users who are sharing the same computing device. It isn’t intended to secure your data against other people using your device - so anyone with access to your device can view all the information in all profiles. To truly protect your data from being seen by others, use the built-in user accounts in your operating system.

    If you choose Google as your search engine, Chrome will contact Google when it starts or when you change networks so as to determine the best local web address to send search queries. When you type URLs or queries in the Chrome address bar (omnibox) or App Launcher search box, the letters you type may be sent to your default search engine so that the search engine’s prediction feature can automatically recommend terms or URLs you may be looking for. Additionally, for signed in users, the text that you type into the App Launcher search box can be sent to Google to provide recommendations for your contacts and the apps you might be looking for. If you accept a predicted query or URL, Chrome may send that information from the browser to your default search engine as well. Learn more about disabling server predictions in the omnibox.

    If you use Chrome’s Instant feature and it is supported by your default search engine, search results and in-line predictions appear instantly as you type in the address bar. For Google’s logging policies regarding address bar predictions and Chrome Instant, see our "Logging Policies for Omnibox Predictions and Chrome Instant" help center article.

    If you navigate to a URL that does not exist, Chrome may send the URL to Google so we can help you find the URL you were looking for. We may also use this information in an aggregated way to help other web users - e.g. to let them know that the site may be down. Learn more about disabling suggestions on navigation errors.

    Chrome periodically contacts Google to perform functions such as checking for updates, checking connectivity status, validating current time, and estimating the number of active users. Each copy of Chrome browser includes a temporary randomly-generated installation number which will be sent to Google when you install and first use the product. The temporary number will be promptly deleted the first time that Chrome browser automatically checks for updates. If you received or reactivated your copy of the Chrome browser as part of a promotional campaign, it may also generate a non-unique promotional tag which is sent to Google when performing searches with Google and a unique token which is sent to Google when you first run and use the browser after installation, reinstallation, or reactivation. Chrome OS may send a non-unique promotional tag to Google periodically (including during initial set up) and when performing searches with Google. Furthermore, field trials may result in different variations of Chrome, and Chrome may send non-unique information to Google about which variation is active.

    Chrome OS contacts Google during initial device setup to determine if the device is subject to policies of an enterprise admin. This process involves sending part of a hash of the device's serial number to Google and receiving back a list of hashed device serial numbers for devices configured by enterprise admins to be enterprise devices. Chrome contacts Google for session policies when a user first signs in to Chrome or starts browsing without signing in (excluding Guest mode) on devices subject to policies. Chrome will check periodically for updates to these policies. Enterprise policies may involve status and activity reporting for Chrome (including location information for Chrome OS devices) set up by the enterprise admin.

    If you sign in to Chrome browser, Chrome OS or an Android device that includes Chrome as a preinstalled application with your Google Account, this will enable the synchronization feature. Google will store certain information, such as bookmarks, history and other settings, on Google's servers in association with your Google Account. Information stored with your Account is protected by the Google Privacy Policy. We also store this information to make it available to you on other instances of Chrome in which you choose to sign in. Learn more about the specific information you may select to synchronize, and more about disabling Chrome’s synchronization feature in Chrome browser.

    If you sign into Chrome OS with your Google Account, enable offline use of a Google application in Chrome browser or install a Chrome application that stores data in your Google Drive account, Chrome may contact Google's servers and synchronize your data with a local copy to enable offline functionality.

    If you create a supervised user in Chrome browser or on Chrome OS with your Google Account, Google will synchronize and store certain information, such as the supervised user's history and other settings on Google's servers in association with your Google Account. We store this information in order to make it available to you at chrome.com/manage. Information stored with your account is protected by the Google Privacy Policy.

    If you use the Translate feature of Chrome, it will send the text you choose to be translated to Google for translation.

    If you use the Spellcheck feature of Chrome, which lets you use the same technology used in Google search to check your spelling, it will send the text you type to Google for spelling and grammar suggestions.

    If you use the speech input feature of Chrome, it will send Google an audio recording of your spoken query, your default browser language and the grammar settings of the web page for which you are using speech input. Google will use this information to convert the recorded audio into text. If you have enabled usage statistics and crash reports and you use the speech input feature, additional information will be sent to Google, including the URL of the website using speech input, your operating system, and the manufacturer and model of the computing device and audio hardware you are using.

    If you use Chrome’s AutoFill feature, which automatically completes web forms for you based on similar forms you have filled out before, Chrome will send Google limited information about the pages that have web forms, including a hashed URL of the web page and details of the form's structure, so that we can improve our AutoFill service for this web form. While the information that Chrome sends may include the fact that you typed information into the form, the actual text that you type in the fields will not be sent to Google unless you choose to store that data in your Google Account using Chrome’s synchronization feature.

    Some web forms handled by Chrome will offer you the option to use Google Wallet rather than Chrome’s AutoFill feature to complete the form and make payments. If you use Google Wallet, then to protect you from fraud, Chrome will collect information about your computer (including its location) and share it with Google Wallet.

    If you use Chrome’s location feature, which allows you to share your location with a web site, Chrome will send local network information to Google Location Services to get an estimated location. Learn more about Google Location Services and enabling / disabling location features within Google Chrome. The local network information may include (depending on the capabilities of your device) information about the wifi routers closest to you, cell IDs of the cell towers closest to you, the strength of your wifi or cell signal, and the IP address that is currently assigned to your device. We use the information to process the location request and to operate, support, and improve the overall quality of Chrome and Google Location Services. The collected information described above will be anonymized and aggregated before being used by Google to develop new features or products and services, or to improve the overall quality of any of Google’s other products and services.

    If you are using a mobile version of Chrome, and you have granted Google apps on Android or Chrome on iOS permission to access your location, then Chrome may use your location for Google location-enabled services, including for example enhancing omnibox searches.

    If you attempt to connect to a Google website using a secure connection, and the browser blocks the connection due to information that indicates you are being actively attacked by someone on the network (a "man in the middle attack"), Chrome may send information about that connection to Google for the purpose of helping to determine the extent of the attack and how the attack functions.

    If you enable Chrome’s “Reduce data usage” feature on your mobile device, Chrome will send your HTTP traffic through Google's optimizing servers to reduce the amount of data downloaded and improve performance. The optimizing service is disabled for connections to HTTPS origins, and for connections made from Incognito tabs.

    For Chrome browser and Chrome OS, you may choose to send usage statistics and crash reports to Google. You can manage this setting within the Chrome preferences page; for Chrome OS users, usage statistics and crash reports are enabled by default. This setting will apply to all users for a given installation of Chrome. The usage statistics and crash reports help us diagnose problems, help us understand how users interact with Chrome, and help us improve Chrome's performance.

    For Chromecast users, Google may collect system activity, crashes, and other details about how you use Chromecast, including use of apps and domains (but not full URLs) accessed by Chromecast. The Chromecast setting for usage data and crash reports is enabled by default; Chromecast users can manage this setting using the settings menu of their setup app.

    Chrome tries to avoid sending information that identifies you personally. Crash reports, however, can contain system information at the time of a malfunction, and errors leading up to a malfunction. We may share with third parties certain aggregated, non-personal information we derive from our analysis, such as how frequently certain types of crashes occur.

Information Google receives when you use the Safe Browsing feature on Chrome or other browsers

Google Chrome and certain third party browsers (including some versions of Mozilla’s Firefox and Apple’s Safari) includes Google's Safe Browsing feature. Safe Browsing sends and receives information between the browser you are using and Google's servers about suspicious websites -- for example when you visit a site that is suspected to be a phishing or malware site.

Your browser will contact Google's servers periodically to download the most recent "Safe Browsing" list, containing known phishing and malware sites. Google does not collect any account information or other personally identifying information as part of this contact, but it does receive standard log information, including an IP address and one or more cookies. The most recent copy of the list is stored locally on your system.

Each site you visit will be checked against the Safe Browsing list on your system. If there is a match against the list, your browser will send Google a hashed, partial copy of the site’s URL so that Google can send more information to your browser. Google cannot determine the real URL from this information. Read more information about how this works.

In addition, the following Safe Browsing features are specific to Chrome:

    Some versions of Chrome feature Safe Browsing technology that can identify potentially harmful sites and executable file downloads not already known by Google. Information regarding a potentially harmful site or executable file download (including the full URL of the site or executable file download) may be sent to Google to help determine whether the site or download is harmful. Google does not collect any account information or other personally identifying information as part of this contact, but does receive standard log information, including an IP address, URL visited and one or more cookies.

    You can choose to send additional data to help improve Safe Browsing when you access a site that appears to contain malware. This data is sent when you close or navigate away from a Safe Browsing warning page. The reports contain data, such as the URL and contents of the website as well as the URL of the page that directed you to that site, that can be used by Google to verify whether the site is still serving content that may exploit users.

    If usage statistics are enabled in Chrome and you visit a site that we think could be potentially harmful, certain additional data will be shared with Google, including the full URL that you visited, the "referer" header sent to that page, and the URL that matched the Safe Browsing list.

    You can always choose to disable the Safe Browsing feature within Chrome.

Information website operators receive when you visit a site using Chrome

Sites that you visit using Chrome will automatically receive standard log information similar to that received by Google. These sites may also set their own cookies or store site data on your system. You can restrict cookies and other site data in Chrome's preferences page.

If you enable Chrome’s network actions prediction feature and you visit a webpage, Chrome may look up the IP addresses of all links on the webpages and open network connections to load webpages faster. Sites can also use pre-rendering technology to pre-load the links that you might click next.

If you use Chrome in incognito mode (or in guest mode on Chrome OS), it will not transmit any pre-existing cookies to sites that you visit. Sites may deposit new cookies on your system while you are in these modes; these cookies will only be temporarily stored and transmitted to sites while you remain in incognito / guest mode. They will be deleted when you close the browser, close all open incognito windows or exit guest mode. While Chromecast does not have an incognito mode, if you are using incognito mode on your Chrome browser and cast a site to Chromecast, Chromecast will not log the domain of that site.

If you choose to use Chrome’s location feature, this service allows you to share your location with a site. Chrome will not allow a site to access your location without your permission. Google does not have control over third party websites or their privacy practices. Please carefully consider any website’s privacy practices before consenting to share your location with that website.
Information stored on your system when you use Chrome

Chrome stores some information locally on your system. This may include:

    Basic browsing history information, for example the URLs of pages that you visit, a cache file of text and images from those pages, and a list of some IP addresses linked from pages that you visit.

    A searchable index of most pages you visit (except for secure pages with "https" web addresses, such as some bank pages)

    Thumbnail-sized screenshots of most pages you visit

    Cookies or web storage data deposited on your system by websites you visit

    Locally-stored data saved by Add-ons

    A record of downloads you have made from websites

You can always choose to delete your browsing history information, in whole or in part.

You can also limit the information Chrome stores on your system by using incognito mode (or guest mode on Chrome OS). In these modes, Chrome will not store basic browsing history information such as URLs, cached page text, or IP addresses of pages linked from the websites you visit. It will also not store snapshots of pages that you visit or keep a record of your downloads (although this information could still be stored elsewhere on your system, e.g. in a list of recently opened files). New cookies received in these modes will not be saved after you close your browser, close all open incognito windows or exit guest mode. You can see when you are in incognito / guest mode because the incognito icon appears in the top corner of your browser; in some cases the border of your browser window may also change color.

When you make changes to your browser configuration, such as by bookmarking a web page or changing your settings, this information is also saved. These changes are not affected by incognito / guest mode.

You can choose to have Chrome save your passwords for specific websites. Stored passwords can be reviewed in Chrome settings.
Unique Identifiers for Digital Rights Management

In order to allow certain content to be accessed using Chrome browser for Windows, Chrome OS or Chromecast, Chrome may be required to provide selected content partners and websites using Adobe Flash Access with a unique identifier that is stored on your system. On Chrome OS and the Chrome browser for Windows, you can disable this feature in the settings or reset the unique identifier’s value by reinstalling the operating system. On Chromecast, this unique identifier is permanently stored on your device and cannot be deleted or changed.

Parties to whom your unique identifier is provided could associate it with personally-identifiable information you provide to them. Google’s use of a unique identifier to provide content from Google servers is subject to the Google Privacy Policy. If you are accessing content from a third party service, you should review those parties’ privacy policies to learn more.
Using apps, extensions, themes, services, and other add-ons with Chrome

You may use apps, extensions, themes, services and other add-ons ("Add-ons") with Chrome, including some that may be pre-installed or integrated with Chrome and some that you may obtain from Chrome Web Store or other sources.

Before installing an Add-on, you should review the requested permissions. Add-ons may be designed to store, access, and share data stored locally or in your Google Drive account. Add-ons may use notifications that are sent through Google servers. Chrome may check for, download, and install updates to your Add-ons. Chrome may send usage indicators to Google for installed Add-ons. Some add-ons might require access to a unique identifier for digital rights management. You can disable the use of such an identifier by removing the add-on from Chrome.

From time to time, Google may discover an Add-on that poses a security vulnerability or violates the developer terms for Chrome Web Store or other legal agreements, laws, regulations or policies. Chrome may periodically download a list of such Add-ons from Google’s servers, and Google may remotely disable or remove such Add-ons from user systems in its sole discretion.

Add-ons developed and provided by Google may communicate with Google servers and are subject to the Google Privacy Policy unless otherwise indicated. Add-ons developed and provided by third parties are the responsibility of such third parties and may be subject to third party privacy policies. For example, a version of the Adobe Flash Player plug-in is preinstalled with Chrome. Adobe’s website at www.adobe.com provides more information on Adobe’s privacy practices with regard to Flash Player, and you can learn more about disabling Flash Player or any other plug-ins.
Uses

Information that Google receives when you use Chrome is processed in order to operate and improve Chrome and other Google services. Information that other website operators receive is subject to the privacy policies of those websites. Chrome stores information on your system in order to improve Chrome’s performance and to provide you with useful features and services.
More information

Google adheres to the US Safe Harbor privacy principles. For more information about the Safe Harbor framework or our registration, see the Department of Commerce's web site.

Further information about Chrome is available here.

For more information about our privacy practices, go to the full privacy policy. If you have additional questions, please contact Google at any time. Or write to us at:

    Privacy Matters

    c/o Google Inc.

    1600 Amphitheatre Parkway

    Mountain View CA 94043 (USA)

Google Play - Privacy Policy for Books

October 13, 2011 | View archived version

The main Google Privacy Policy describes how we treat personal information when you use Google's products and services, including Google Play. This additional policy for books on Google Play does three things: (1) it highlights key provisions of the main Google Privacy Policy in the context of books on Google Play, and (2) it describes privacy practices specific to books on Google Play.
Key provisions from the Google Privacy Policy

All of the provisions of the Google Privacy Policy apply to books on Google Play. Among other things, this means:

    We do not share your personal information with third parties, except in the narrow circumstances described in the Privacy Policy, such as emergencies or in response to valid legal process. For purchased books, we provide publishers with sales information, but do not provide personal information. For purchased books where we acted as the publisher's agent, we provide the publisher with information on the taxes we collect including the state, city and zip code from the purchaser's billing address. Google offers books for sale not only from Google Play, but also through resellers as well (for example, for purchase off a reseller's website or reading device). Also, our application developer partners use Google services to integrate with Google Play and provide you access to books from Google Play on their services. When you purchase a book through a reseller or use services of an application developer, you will need to log in with your Google Account information or create a Google Account if you don't have one. Once you have logged in, if you choose to synchronize your Google Play account with your account with the reseller or application developer, we will share information about your books on Google Play (e.g., all of your library shelves, titles, annotations, last five pages read for each book), except information regarding the seller(s) from whom you purchased your books, with the reseller or application developer. The application developer's or reseller's treatment of that information (and any other information you submit to the reseller or application developer directly) will be governed by the application developer's or reseller's privacy policy, not ours; please make sure to review any applicable privacy policy when you choose to purchase through a reseller or use services of an application developer.
    When you use books on Google Play, we receive log information similar to what we receive in Web Search. This may include information such as the query term or page request (which may include book titles or specific pages within a book you are browsing), Internet Protocol address, browser type, browser language, the date and time of your request and one or more cookies that may uniquely identify your browser or your account.
    Unless you are logged into your Google Account, your activity on Google Play will not be associated with your Google Account.
    You may choose to use optional features within books on Google Play (such as My Library or purchased books) or other optional Google services (such as our Web History service) that require a Google Account and which may receive and store information from books on Google Play in association with your Account. Books features that store information with your Account will show you the information you have stored and allow you to delete it (unless we are required to keep it by law or for legitimate and limited business purposes such as fraud investigations). However, you will not be able to delete the record of your purchase transaction (including the title of the book) from your Checkout account history.
    Google uses the information it stores for the purposes discussed in the Google Privacy Policy, including to improve our services (for example, to help customize recommendations for Google products or services you may be interested in), for security, and to report on aggregate user trends.
    Usage data from Google Play is subject to the same security standards that are outlined in our main Privacy Policy. 

Practices specific to books on Google Play product

The privacy practices that are specific to books on Google Play are:

    To fulfill contractual commitments to rightsholders who license us books, we enforce certain security limits (for example, to prevent abusive sharing of purchased books and to enforce page view limits on some book previews), and we also enforce limits on the numbers of browsers or devices that can access an account during a given period of time. In order to enforce limits on numbers of devices, we will store the unique ID numbers of your devices on our servers. You can delete a device ID number when you wish to stop using that device.
    You will need to have a Google Account in order to purchase books because account information is necessary to provide access to users who bought the book. We limit the information (such as books titles) we provide to credit card companies, and enable you to delete purchased books from your Google Account. However, you will not be able to delete the record of your purchase transaction (including the title of the book) from your Checkout account history.
    In order to enable consistent reading position across devices and provide useful navigation within a book, we store the last five pages (only) in each book a user has viewed with the user's account. We also store pages viewed for security monitoring and/or if the user elects to use the Web History service.
    Special legal privacy protections for users may apply in cases where law enforcement or civil litigants ask Google for information about what books an individual user has looked at. Some jurisdictions have special "books laws" saying that this information is not available unless the person asking for it meets a special, high standard such as proving to a court that there is a compelling need for the information, and that this need outweighs the reader's interest in reading anonymously under the United States First Amendment or other applicable laws. Where these "books laws" exist and apply to books on Google Play, we will raise them. We will also continue our strong history of fighting for high standards to protect users, regardless of whether a particular "books law" applies. In addition, we are committed to notifying the affected user if we receive such a request that may lead to disclosure of their information; if we are permitted to do so by law and if we have an effective way to contact the user, we will seek to do so in time for the user to challenge the request. 

For additional information about books on Google Play and privacy, please see our FAQ.



Google Payments Privacy Notice
Last modified September 23, 2018

The Google Privacy Policy describes how we treat personal information when you use Google's products and services. Google Payments is offered to Google Account holders and your use of it is subject to the Google Privacy Policy. In addition, this Privacy Notice describes Google privacy practices that are specific to Google Payments.

Your use of Google Payments is governed by the Google Payments Terms of Service, which describes in more detail the Services covered by this Privacy Notice. Capitalized terms not defined in this Google Payments Privacy Notice shall have the meaning ascribed to them in the Google Payments Terms of Service.

The Google Payments Privacy Notice applies to Services offered by Google LLC's wholly owned subsidiaries, including Google Payment Corp. ("GPC"). Please consult the Google Payments Terms of Service made available to you within the Service to learn the subsidiary offering the Service.
Information we collect

In addition to the information listed in the Google Privacy Policy we may also collect the following:

    Registration information - When you sign up for Google Payments, you are creating a Google Payments Account that is associated with your Google Account. Depending on the Google Payments services you use, in addition to the information listed in the Google Privacy Policy, you may be asked to provide the following information: Credit or debit card number and card expiration date, bank account number and expiration date, address, phone number, date of birth, social security number or taxpayer identification number (or some other government-issued identification number), and for sellers or businesses specifically, your business category and certain information about your sales or transaction volume. In some cases, we may also ask you to send us additional information or to answer additional questions to help verify your information. Finally, if you register a Carrier or Operator Billing Account, we will ask you to provide us with certain information about your Carrier or Operator account.
    Information obtained from third parties - We may obtain information about you from third parties, including third party verification services. This includes information arising from Google Payments transactions at merchant locations, information regarding your use of payment methods and your accounts issued by third parties that are linked to the Google Payments, the identity of your card issuer or financial institution, information regarding access to balances held in your Google Payments Account, information from a Carrier or Operator in connection with Carrier or Operator Billing, and consumer reports, as the term "consumer reports" is defined by the US Fair Credit Reporting Act.

    Also, for sellers, we may obtain information about you and your business from a credit bureau or a business information service.
    Transaction information - When you use Google Payments to conduct a transaction, we may collect information about the transaction, including: Date, time and amount of the transaction, the merchant's location and description, a description provided by the seller of the goods or services purchased, any photo you choose to associate with the transaction, the names and email addresses of the seller and buyer (or sender and recipient), the type of payment method used, your description of the reason for the transaction, and the offer associated with the transaction, if any.

How we use the information we collect

In addition to the uses listed in the Google Privacy Policy, we use the information you provide to us and to GPC or other of our subsidiaries, as well as information about you from third parties, in order to provide you with Google Payments for customer service purposes, and to protect you from fraud, phishing or other misconduct. Such information may also be used to assist third parties in the provision of products or services that you request from them. We also use the information to review your Google Payments Account to determine whether you continue to meet the terms of the account, to make decisions about your future Google Payments transactions, and for other legitimate business needs related to the Google Payments transactions initiated by you.

Your registration information is stored in association with your Google Account and your registration of a payment method will be stored on Google's servers. In addition, certain data elements may also be stored on your mobile device. We may retain the information you provide for extended periods of time for the purpose of complying with legal process and regulatory obligations.
Information we share

We will only share your personal information with other companies or individuals outside of Google in the following circumstances:

    As permitted under the Google Privacy Policy.
    As necessary to process your transaction and maintain your account.
    To complete your registration for a service provided by a third party.
    To inform a third party merchant, whose site or app you visit, whether you have a Google Payments account that can be used for making payment to that merchant.

For example, when you make a purchase or transaction using Google Payments, we make certain personal information about you available to the company or individual you purchase from or transact with. This includes sharing your personal information with the developer from whom you purchased when you use Google Payments to make a purchase on Google Play. When you add a third party form of payment to your Google Payments Account, we may exchange certain personal information about you, such as your name, profile image, email, IP and billing address, phone number, device info, location, and Google Account activity info, with the third party payment provider as necessary to provide the service.

When you visit a participating merchant site or app, the merchant can check whether you have a Google Payments account with an eligible form of payment that can be used to pay the merchant, in order to reduce the likelihood that you will see unusable features on sites or apps.

Any information you provide directly to a third party merchant, website or application is not covered by this privacy notice. We are not responsible for the privacy or security practices of merchants or other third parties with whom you choose to share your personal information directly. We encourage you to review the privacy policies of any third party to whom you choose to share your personal information directly.

The information that we collect, including information obtained from third parties, is shared with our affiliates, meaning other companies owned and controlled by Google LLC. Our affiliates, which can be financial and nonfinancial entities, will use such information for their everyday business purposes.

We provide you with the right to opt out of certain sharing between GPC and its affiliates. Specifically, you may choose to opt out of:

    Sharing between GPC and its affiliates of information about your creditworthiness for their everyday business purposes; and/or,
    Our affiliates marketing their products or services to you based on your personal information that we collect and share with them. This information includes your account history with us.

You may also choose to opt out of Google LLC or its affiliates informing a third party merchant, whose site or app you visit, whether you have a Google Payments account that can be used for payment to that merchant.

If you choose to opt out, your choice will be effective until you tell us to change your choice.

If you don't want us to share personal information about your creditworthiness between GPC and its affiliates, or if you do not want our affiliates to use your personal information collected by us and shared with them to market to you, or if you do not want Google LLC or its affiliates to inform a third party merchant, whose site or app you visit, whether you have a Google Payments account that can be used for payment to that merchant, please indicate your preference by logging into your account, going to the Google Payments privacy settings page, and updating your preferences.

We will not share your personal information with anyone outside of GPC or with our affiliates except as described in this privacy notice. As explained above, Google Payments is a product offered to Google Account holders. Data you provide to Google LLC for the purpose of signing up for a Google Account is not affected by the opt-out provisions in this notice.
Information security

For more information about our security practices, please see the main Google Privacy Policy.

The security of your Google Payments Account depends on you keeping your account password(s), PINs, and other access information for the Service confidential. If you share your account information with a third party, he or she will have access to your account and your personal information.

It is your responsibility to control access to your mobile device and the Google Payments application on your device, including keeping your password(s) and/or PIN confidential and not sharing it with anyone. It is also your responsibility to alert Google or the relevant partner if you believe that the security of the information in the Google Payments application has been compromised.

© 2018 Google - Google Home Google Terms of Service Previous Privacy Notices
