This is an archived version of our Privacy Policy. View the current version or all past versions.
Privacy Policy

Last modified: August 19, 2015 (view archived versions)

There are many different ways you can use our services – to search for and share information, to communicate with other people or to create new content. When you share information with us, for example by creating a Google Account, we can make those services even better – to show you more relevant search results and ads, to help you connect with people or to make sharing with others quicker and easier. As you use our services, we want you to be clear how we’re using information and the ways in which you can protect your privacy.

Our Privacy Policy explains:

    What information we collect and why we collect it.
    How we use that information.
    The choices we offer, including how to access and update information.

We’ve tried to keep it as simple as possible, but if you’re not familiar with terms like cookies, IP addresses, pixel tags and browsers, then read about these key terms first. Your privacy matters to Google so whether you are new to Google or a long-time user, please do take the time to get to know our practices – and if you have any questions contact us.
Information we collect

We collect information to provide better services to all of our users – from figuring out basic stuff like which language you speak, to more complex things like which ads you’ll find most useful, the people who matter most to you online, or which YouTube videos you might like.

We collect information in the following ways:

    Information you give us. For example, many of our services require you to sign up for a Google Account. When you do, we’ll ask for personal information, like your name, email address, telephone number or credit card to store with your account. If you want to take full advantage of the sharing features we offer, we might also ask you to create a publicly visible Google Profile, which may include your name and photo.

    Information we get from your use of our services. We collect information about the services that you use and how you use them, like when you watch a video on YouTube, visit a website that uses our advertising services, or view and interact with our ads and content. This information includes:

        Device information

        We collect device-specific information (such as your hardware model, operating system version, unique device identifiers, and mobile network information including phone number). Google may associate your device identifiers or phone number with your Google Account.

        Log information

        When you use our services or view content provided by Google, we automatically collect and store certain information in server logs. This includes:
            details of how you used our service, such as your search queries.
            telephony log information like your phone number, calling-party number, forwarding numbers, time and date of calls, duration of calls, SMS routing information and types of calls.
            Internet protocol address.
            device event information such as crashes, system activity, hardware settings, browser type, browser language, the date and time of your request and referral URL.
            cookies that may uniquely identify your browser or your Google Account.

        Location information

        When you use Google services, we may collect and process information about your actual location. We use various technologies to determine location, including IP address, GPS, and other sensors that may, for example, provide Google with information on nearby devices, Wi-Fi access points and cell towers.

        Unique application numbers

        Certain services include a unique application number. This number and information about your installation (for example, the operating system type and application version number) may be sent to Google when you install or uninstall that service or when that service periodically contacts our servers, such as for automatic updates.

        Local storage

        We may collect and store information (including personal information) locally on your device using mechanisms such as browser web storage (including HTML 5) and application data caches.

        Cookies and similar technologies

        We and our partners use various technologies to collect and store information when you visit a Google service, and this may include using cookies or similar technologies to identify your browser or device. We also use these technologies to collect and store information when you interact with services we offer to our partners, such as advertising services or Google features that may appear on other sites. Our Google Analytics product helps businesses and site owners analyze the traffic to their websites and apps. When used in conjunction with our advertising services, such as those using the DoubleClick cookie, Google Analytics information is linked, by the Google Analytics customer or by Google, using Google technology, with information about visits to multiple sites.

Information we collect when you are signed in to Google, in addition to information we obtain about you from partners, may be associated with your Google Account. When information is associated with your Google Account, we treat it as personal information. For more information about how you can access, manage or delete information that is associated with your Google Account, visit the Transparency and choice section of this policy.
How we use information we collect

We use the information we collect from all of our services to provide, maintain, protect and improve them, to develop new ones, and to protect Google and our users. We also use this information to offer you tailored content – like giving you more relevant search results and ads.

We may use the name you provide for your Google Profile across all of the services we offer that require a Google Account. In addition, we may replace past names associated with your Google Account so that you are represented consistently across all our services. If other users already have your email, or other information that identifies you, we may show them your publicly visible Google Profile information, such as your name and photo.

If you have a Google Account, we may display your Profile name, Profile photo, and actions you take on Google or on third-party applications connected to your Google Account (such as +1’s, reviews you write and comments you post) in our services, including displaying in ads and other commercial contexts. We will respect the choices you make to limit sharing or visibility settings in your Google Account.

When you contact Google, we keep a record of your communication to help solve any issues you might be facing. We may use your email address to inform you about our services, such as letting you know about upcoming changes or improvements.

We use information collected from cookies and other technologies, like pixel tags, to improve your user experience and the overall quality of our services. One of the products we use to do this on our own services is Google Analytics. For example, by saving your language preferences, we’ll be able to have our services appear in the language you prefer. When showing you tailored ads, we will not associate an identifier from cookies or similar technologies with sensitive categories, such as those based on race, religion, sexual orientation or health.

Our automated systems analyze your content (including emails) to provide you personally relevant product features, such as customized search results, tailored advertising, and spam and malware detection.

We may combine personal information from one service with information, including personal information, from other Google services – for example to make it easier to share things with people you know. We will not combine DoubleClick cookie information with personally identifiable information unless we have your opt-in consent.

We will ask for your consent before using information for a purpose other than those that are set out in this Privacy Policy.

Google processes personal information on our servers in many countries around the world. We may process your personal information on a server located outside the country where you live.
Transparency and choice

People have different privacy concerns. Our goal is to be clear about what information we collect, so that you can make meaningful choices about how it is used. For example, you can:

    Review and update your Google activity controls to decide what types of data, such as videos you’ve watched on YouTube or past searches, you would like saved with your account when you use Google services.
    Review and control certain types of information tied to your Google Account by using Google Dashboard.
    View and edit your preferences about the Google ads shown to you on Google and across the web, such as which categories might interest you, using Ads Settings. You can also opt out of certain Google advertising services here.
    Adjust how the Profile associated with your Google Account appears to others.
    Control who you share information with through your Google Account.
    Take information associated with your Google Account out of many of our services.
    Choose whether your Profile name and Profile photo appear in shared endorsements that appear in ads.

You may also set your browser to block all cookies, including cookies associated with our services, or to indicate when a cookie is being set by us. However, it’s important to remember that many of our services may not function properly if your cookies are disabled. For example, we may not remember your language preferences.
Information you share

Many of our services let you share information with others. Remember that when you share information publicly, it may be indexable by search engines, including Google. Our services provide you with different options on sharing and removing your content.
Accessing and updating your personal information

Whenever you use our services, we aim to provide you with access to your personal information. If that information is wrong, we strive to give you ways to update it quickly or to delete it – unless we have to keep that information for legitimate business or legal purposes. When updating your personal information, we may ask you to verify your identity before we can act on your request.

We may reject requests that are unreasonably repetitive, require disproportionate technical effort (for example, developing a new system or fundamentally changing an existing practice), risk the privacy of others, or would be extremely impractical (for instance, requests concerning information residing on backup systems).

Where we can provide information access and correction, we will do so for free, except where it would require a disproportionate effort. We aim to maintain our services in a manner that protects information from accidental or malicious destruction. Because of this, after you delete information from our services, we may not immediately delete residual copies from our active servers and may not remove information from our backup systems.
Information we share

We do not share personal information with companies, organizations and individuals outside of Google unless one of the following circumstances applies:

    With your consent

    We will share personal information with companies, organizations or individuals outside of Google when we have your consent to do so. We require opt-in consent for the sharing of any sensitive personal information.

    With domain administrators

    If your Google Account is managed for you by a domain administrator (for example, for Google Apps users) then your domain administrator and resellers who provide user support to your organization will have access to your Google Account information (including your email and other data). Your domain administrator may be able to:
        view statistics regarding your account, like statistics regarding applications you install.
        change your account password.
        suspend or terminate your account access.
        access or retain information stored as part of your account.
        receive your account information in order to satisfy applicable law, regulation, legal process or enforceable governmental request.
        restrict your ability to delete or edit information or privacy settings.

    Please refer to your domain administrator’s privacy policy for more information.

    For external processing

    We provide personal information to our affiliates or other trusted businesses or persons to process it for us, based on our instructions and in compliance with our Privacy Policy and any other appropriate confidentiality and security measures.

    For legal reasons

    We will share personal information with companies, organizations or individuals outside of Google if we have a good-faith belief that access, use, preservation or disclosure of the information is reasonably necessary to:
        meet any applicable law, regulation, legal process or enforceable governmental request.
        enforce applicable Terms of Service, including investigation of potential violations.
        detect, prevent, or otherwise address fraud, security or technical issues.
        protect against harm to the rights, property or safety of Google, our users or the public as required or permitted by law.

We may share non-personally identifiable information publicly and with our partners – like publishers, advertisers or connected sites. For example, we may share information publicly to show trends about the general use of our services.

If Google is involved in a merger, acquisition or asset sale, we will continue to ensure the confidentiality of any personal information and give affected users notice before personal information is transferred or becomes subject to a different privacy policy.
Information security

We work hard to protect Google and our users from unauthorized access to or unauthorized alteration, disclosure or destruction of information we hold. In particular:

    We encrypt many of our services using SSL.
    We offer you two step verification when you access your Google Account, and a Safe Browsing feature in Google Chrome.
    We review our information collection, storage and processing practices, including physical security measures, to guard against unauthorized access to systems.
    We restrict access to personal information to Google employees, contractors and agents who need to know that information in order to process it for us, and who are subject to strict contractual confidentiality obligations and may be disciplined or terminated if they fail to meet these obligations.

When this Privacy Policy applies

Our Privacy Policy applies to all of the services offered by Google Inc. and its affiliates, including YouTube, services Google provides on Android devices, and services offered on other sites (such as our advertising services), but excludes services that have separate privacy policies that do not incorporate this Privacy Policy.

Our Privacy Policy does not apply to services offered by other companies or individuals, including products or sites that may be displayed to you in search results, sites that may include Google services, or other sites linked from our services. Our Privacy Policy does not cover the information practices of other companies and organizations who advertise our services, and who may use cookies, pixel tags and other technologies to serve and offer relevant ads.
Compliance and cooperation with regulatory authorities

We regularly review our compliance with our Privacy Policy. We also adhere to several self regulatory frameworks. When we receive formal written complaints, we will contact the person who made the complaint to follow up. We work with the appropriate regulatory authorities, including local data protection authorities, to resolve any complaints regarding the transfer of personal data that we cannot resolve with our users directly.
Changes

Our Privacy Policy may change from time to time. We will not reduce your rights under this Privacy Policy without your explicit consent. We will post any privacy policy changes on this page and, if the changes are significant, we will provide a more prominent notice (including, for certain services, email notification of privacy policy changes). We will also keep prior versions of this Privacy Policy in an archive for your review.
Specific product practices

The following notices explain specific privacy practices with respect to certain Google products and services that you may use:

    Chrome and Chrome OS
    Books
    Payments
    Fiber

For more information about some of our most popular services, you can visit the Google Product Privacy Guide.
Other useful privacy and security related materials

Further useful privacy and security related materials can be found through Google’s policies and principles pages, including:

    Information about our technologies and principles, which includes, among other things, more information on
        how Google uses cookies.
        technologies we use for advertising.
        how we recognize patterns like faces.
    A page that explains what data is shared with Google when you visit websites that use our advertising, analytics and social products.
    The Privacy Checkup tool, which makes it easy to review your key privacy settings.
    Google’s safety center, which provides information on how to stay safe and secure online.

"access to your personal information"

For example, with Google Dashboard you can quickly and easily see some of the data associated with your Google Account. Learn more.
"ads you’ll find most useful"

For example, if you frequently visit websites and blogs about gardening, you may see ads related to gardening as you browse the web. Learn more.
"advertising services"

For example, if you frequently visit websites and blogs about gardening that show our ads, you may start to see ads related to this interest as you browse the web. Learn more.
"and other sensors"

Your device may have sensors that provide information to assist in a better understanding of your location. For example, an accelerometer can be used to determine things like speed, or a gyroscope to figure out direction of travel. Learn more.
"collect information"

This includes information like your usage data and preferences, Gmail messages, G+ profile, photos, videos, browsing history, map searches, docs, or other Google-hosted content. Learn more.
"combine personal information from one service with information, including personal information, from other Google services"

For example, when you’re signed in to your Google Account and search on Google, you can see search results from the public web, along with pages, photos, and Google+ posts from your friends and people who know you or follow you on Google+ may see your posts and profile in their results. Learn more.
"connect with people"

For example, you could get suggestions of people you might know or want to connect with on Google+, based on the connections you have with people on other Google products, like Gmail and people who have a connection with you may see your profile as a suggestion. Learn more.
"credit card"

Whilst we currently don’t ask for a credit card during sign up, verifying your age through a small credit card transaction is one way to confirm that you meet our age requirements in case your account was disabled after you have entered a birthday indicating you are not old enough to have a Google Account. Learn more.
"develop new ones"

For example, Google’s spell checking software was developed by analyzing previous searches where users had corrected their own spelling. Learn more.
"device identifiers"

Device identifiers let Google know which unique device you are using to access our services, which can be used to customise our service to your device or analyse any device issues related to our services. Learn more.
"device-specific information"

For example, when you visit Google Play from your desktop, Google can use this information to help you decide on which devices you'd like your purchases to be available for use. Learn more.
"improve your user experience"

For example, cookies allow us to analyse how users interact with our services. Learn more.
"legal process or enforceable governmental request"

Like other technology and communications companies, Google regularly receives requests from governments and courts around the world to hand over user data. Learn more.
"limit sharing or visibility settings"

For example, you can choose your settings so your name and photo do not appear in an ad. Learn more.
"linked with information about visits to multiple sites"

Google Analytics is based on first-party cookies. Data generated through Google Analytics can be linked, by the Google Analytics customer or by Google, using Google technology, to third-party cookies, related to visits to other websites, for instance when an advertiser wants to use its Google Analytics data to create more relevant ads, or to further analyze its traffic. Learn more.
"maintain"

For example, we continuously monitor our systems to check that they are working as intended and in order to detect and fix errors. Learn more.
"may collect and process information about your actual location"

For example, Google Maps can center the maps view on your current location. Learn more.
"may not function properly"

For example, we use a cookie called ‘lbcs’ which makes it possible for you to open many Google Docs in one browser. Learn more.
"and our partners"

We allow trusted businesses to use cookies or similar technologies for advertising and research purposes on our services. Learn more.
"phone number"

For example, if you add a phone number as a recovery option, if you forget your password Google can send you a text message with a code to enable you to reset it. Learn more.
"protect Google and our users"

For example, if you're concerned about unauthorized access to your email, "Last account activity" in Gmail shows you information about recent activity in your email, such as the IP addresses that accessed your mail, the associated location, as well as the time and date. Learn more.
"protect"

For example, one reason we collect and analyze IP addresses and cookies is to protect our services against automated abuse. Learn more.
"provide"

For example, the IP address assigned to your device is used to send the data you requested back to your device. Learn more.
"sharing"

For example, with Google+, you have many different sharing options. Learn more.
"sharing with others quicker and easier"

For example, if someone is already a contact, Google will autocomplete their name if you want to add them to a message in Gmail. Learn more.
"the people who matter most to you online"

For example, when you type an address in the To, Cc, or Bcc field of a message you're composing, Gmail will suggest addresses from your Contacts list. Learn more.
"to make it easier to share things with people you know"

For example, if you have communicated with someone via Gmail and want to add them to a Google Doc or an event in Google Calendar, Google makes it easy to do so by autocompleting their email address when you start to type in their name. Learn more.
"view and interact with our ads"

For example, we regularly report to advertisers on whether we served their ad to a page and whether that ad was likely to be seen by users (as opposed to, for example, being on part of the page to which users did not scroll). Learn more.
"We may share aggregated, non-personally identifiable information publicly"

When lots of people start searching for something, it can provide very useful information about particular trends at that time. Learn more.
"Wi-Fi access points and cell towers"

For example, Google can approximate your device’s location based on the known location of nearby cell towers. Learn more.
"more relevant search results"

For example, we can make search more relevant and interesting for you by including photos, posts, and more from you and your friends. Learn more.
"removing your content"

For example, you can delete your Web History, your blog, a Google Site you own, your YouTube Channel, your Google+ profile or your entire Google account. Learn more.
"to show trends"

You can see some of these at Google Trends and YouTube Trends. Learn more.



Google Payments Privacy Notice
Last modified September 23, 2018

The Google Privacy Policy describes how we treat personal information when you use Google's products and services. Google Payments is offered to Google Account holders and your use of it is subject to the Google Privacy Policy. In addition, this Privacy Notice describes Google privacy practices that are specific to Google Payments.

Your use of Google Payments is governed by the Google Payments Terms of Service, which describes in more detail the Services covered by this Privacy Notice. Capitalized terms not defined in this Google Payments Privacy Notice shall have the meaning ascribed to them in the Google Payments Terms of Service.

The Google Payments Privacy Notice applies to Services offered by Google LLC's wholly owned subsidiaries, including Google Payment Corp. ("GPC"). Please consult the Google Payments Terms of Service made available to you within the Service to learn the subsidiary offering the Service.
Information we collect

In addition to the information listed in the Google Privacy Policy we may also collect the following:

    Registration information - When you sign up for Google Payments, you are creating a Google Payments Account that is associated with your Google Account. Depending on the Google Payments services you use, in addition to the information listed in the Google Privacy Policy, you may be asked to provide the following information: Credit or debit card number and card expiration date, bank account number and expiration date, address, phone number, date of birth, social security number or taxpayer identification number (or some other government-issued identification number), and for sellers or businesses specifically, your business category and certain information about your sales or transaction volume. In some cases, we may also ask you to send us additional information or to answer additional questions to help verify your information. Finally, if you register a Carrier or Operator Billing Account, we will ask you to provide us with certain information about your Carrier or Operator account.
    Information obtained from third parties - We may obtain information about you from third parties, including third party verification services. This includes information arising from Google Payments transactions at merchant locations, information regarding your use of payment methods and your accounts issued by third parties that are linked to the Google Payments, the identity of your card issuer or financial institution, information regarding access to balances held in your Google Payments Account, information from a Carrier or Operator in connection with Carrier or Operator Billing, and consumer reports, as the term "consumer reports" is defined by the US Fair Credit Reporting Act.

    Also, for sellers, we may obtain information about you and your business from a credit bureau or a business information service.
    Transaction information - When you use Google Payments to conduct a transaction, we may collect information about the transaction, including: Date, time and amount of the transaction, the merchant's location and description, a description provided by the seller of the goods or services purchased, any photo you choose to associate with the transaction, the names and email addresses of the seller and buyer (or sender and recipient), the type of payment method used, your description of the reason for the transaction, and the offer associated with the transaction, if any.

How we use the information we collect

In addition to the uses listed in the Google Privacy Policy, we use the information you provide to us and to GPC or other of our subsidiaries, as well as information about you from third parties, in order to provide you with Google Payments for customer service purposes, and to protect you from fraud, phishing or other misconduct. Such information may also be used to assist third parties in the provision of products or services that you request from them. We also use the information to review your Google Payments Account to determine whether you continue to meet the terms of the account, to make decisions about your future Google Payments transactions, and for other legitimate business needs related to the Google Payments transactions initiated by you.

Your registration information is stored in association with your Google Account and your registration of a payment method will be stored on Google's servers. In addition, certain data elements may also be stored on your mobile device. We may retain the information you provide for extended periods of time for the purpose of complying with legal process and regulatory obligations.
Information we share

We will only share your personal information with other companies or individuals outside of Google in the following circumstances:

    As permitted under the Google Privacy Policy.
    As necessary to process your transaction and maintain your account.
    To complete your registration for a service provided by a third party.
    To inform a third party merchant, whose site or app you visit, whether you have a Google Payments account that can be used for making payment to that merchant.

For example, when you make a purchase or transaction using Google Payments, we make certain personal information about you available to the company or individual you purchase from or transact with. This includes sharing your personal information with the developer from whom you purchased when you use Google Payments to make a purchase on Google Play. When you add a third party form of payment to your Google Payments Account, we may exchange certain personal information about you, such as your name, profile image, email, IP and billing address, phone number, device info, location, and Google Account activity info, with the third party payment provider as necessary to provide the service.

When you visit a participating merchant site or app, the merchant can check whether you have a Google Payments account with an eligible form of payment that can be used to pay the merchant, in order to reduce the likelihood that you will see unusable features on sites or apps.

Any information you provide directly to a third party merchant, website or application is not covered by this privacy notice. We are not responsible for the privacy or security practices of merchants or other third parties with whom you choose to share your personal information directly. We encourage you to review the privacy policies of any third party to whom you choose to share your personal information directly.

The information that we collect, including information obtained from third parties, is shared with our affiliates, meaning other companies owned and controlled by Google LLC. Our affiliates, which can be financial and nonfinancial entities, will use such information for their everyday business purposes.

We provide you with the right to opt out of certain sharing between GPC and its affiliates. Specifically, you may choose to opt out of:

    Sharing between GPC and its affiliates of information about your creditworthiness for their everyday business purposes; and/or,
    Our affiliates marketing their products or services to you based on your personal information that we collect and share with them. This information includes your account history with us.

You may also choose to opt out of Google LLC or its affiliates informing a third party merchant, whose site or app you visit, whether you have a Google Payments account that can be used for payment to that merchant.

If you choose to opt out, your choice will be effective until you tell us to change your choice.

If you don't want us to share personal information about your creditworthiness between GPC and its affiliates, or if you do not want our affiliates to use your personal information collected by us and shared with them to market to you, or if you do not want Google LLC or its affiliates to inform a third party merchant, whose site or app you visit, whether you have a Google Payments account that can be used for payment to that merchant, please indicate your preference by logging into your account, going to the Google Payments privacy settings page, and updating your preferences.

We will not share your personal information with anyone outside of GPC or with our affiliates except as described in this privacy notice. As explained above, Google Payments is a product offered to Google Account holders. Data you provide to Google LLC for the purpose of signing up for a Google Account is not affected by the opt-out provisions in this notice.
Information security

For more information about our security practices, please see the main Google Privacy Policy.

The security of your Google Payments Account depends on you keeping your account password(s), PINs, and other access information for the Service confidential. If you share your account information with a third party, he or she will have access to your account and your personal information.

It is your responsibility to control access to your mobile device and the Google Payments application on your device, including keeping your password(s) and/or PIN confidential and not sharing it with anyone. It is also your responsibility to alert Google or the relevant partner if you believe that the security of the information in the Google Payments application has been compromised.

© 2018 Google - Google Home Google Terms of Service Previous Privacy Notices


Google Fiber Privacy Notice

Last modified: 2016-04-07 (view archived versions)

The Google Privacy Policy applies to all of the services offered by Google Inc. and its affiliates, including Google Fiber Inc. and Google Fiber North America Inc.

This Google Fiber Privacy Notice explains some important additional things we’d like you to know about information we collect when you visit Fiber websites or when you use Google Fiber services, such as Google Fiber TV, Google Fiber Internet, and Google Fiber Phone (we call these together “Fiber”), and how we use and share that information.
Additional information we collect

To sign up for Fiber, users will be asked to provide an existing Google Account or to create a new one. You may be asked to provide additional personal information, such as billing address, service address or location, and bank account information when you sign up for Fiber.

We may also obtain information about our Fiber users from outside sources for marketing purposes (such as commercially available demographic, geographic, or interest information).

We may have a record of whether third party permission was required to install Fiber equipment for a Fiber user, as well as the third party’s name and contact information.

In order to carry out a request to watch a pay-per-view program or other on-demand content, we may collect certain personal information, such as account or billing information and information about the product or service purchased.

During the initial provisioning or installation of Fiber services, and during any subsequent changes, updates or attempts to resolve issues you bring to our attention, we may access and collect technical information from or about televisions, set-top boxes, computer and network hardware and software, modems, phone boxes, or other systems or devices used in connection with Fiber.

When you use Google Fiber Phone services, we collect and maintain your call history (including calling party phone number, called party phone number, date, time and duration of call), voicemail greetings, voicemail messages, Short Message Service (SMS) messages, recorded conversations, and other data related to your account in order to provide the service to you.
How we use information we collect

The Google Privacy Policy explains how we use information we collect. Below is further information about how we use information collected from certain Fiber services.

Google Fiber TV: All information we collect about the use of Google Fiber TV (including use of programs and applications available through Google Fiber TV) may be associated with the Google Account being used for Google Fiber TV. (When information is associated with your Google Account, we treat it as personal information.) For more information about how this may impact your Google Account, visit our Policies Support page.

Google Fiber Internet: We use technical information collected from the use of Google Fiber Internet for network management, security or maintenance purposes and may associate this information with the Google Account you use for Fiber, but such information associated with the Google Account you use for Fiber will not be used by other Google properties without your consent. Other information from the use of Google Fiber Internet (such as URLs of websites visited or content of communications) will not be associated with the Google Account you use for Fiber, except with your consent or to meet any applicable law, regulation, legal process or enforceable governmental request.

Google Fiber Phone: All information we collect about your use of Google Fiber Phone may be associated with the Google Account being used for Google Fiber Phone. (Again, when information is associated with your Google Account, we treat it as personal information.) In addition to the uses listed in the Google Privacy Policy, and the article How Google Voice works, we use the information we collect to provide your service, bill you for your service, help you troubleshoot any issues you are experiencing, verify your identity, and protect you and Google Fiber from fraud, phishing or other misconduct. As described below, some of your Google Fiber Phone information is treated as CPNI and used in accordance with federal law.

This notice does not apply to the collection and use of information from other Google services (such as Gmail or Google Search) used while connected to Google Fiber Internet – such information will be treated in accordance with applicable Google policies and terms of service.
Information we share

We do not share personal information with companies, organizations and individuals outside of Google except in the circumstances (such as with your consent, with domain administrators, for external processing and for legal reasons) as more fully set out in the Google Privacy Policy.

If you use Google Fiber Phone, your phone number may be displayed to the person you’ve called. You can find out how to block your phone number from being displayed here. We may share non-personally identifiable information publicly and with our partners – like content providers, publishers, advertisers or connected sites.
Customer Proprietary Network Information

We take our duty to protect your Customer Proprietary Network Information (“CPNI”) very seriously. Federal law requires certain voice and Internet access providers, including interconnected Voice over Internet Protocol service providers like Google Fiber Phone, to protect certain personal information that we generate or access in providing the services to you. CPNI for voice services includes, but is not limited to, call details, call location information, and information about the rates and features of the services that you use. CPNI does not include subscriber list information, such as your name, address, or phone number. We may use the information we collect about your use of Google Fiber Phone to send you information about the services in compliance with our obligations to protect your CPNI. Here are the ways we treat your CPNI associated with Google Fiber Phone:

    Securing your CPNI. We implement safeguards that are designed to protect your CPNI. We authenticate you with a password or other permissible means before we disclose any CPNI.

    Using CPNI without your additional approval is limited to specific purposes. By using the Google Fiber Phone services, you allow us to use, disclose, and permit access to your CPNI without your additional approval only for the following limited purposes:
        To provide and offer services and features among the category of services you’re purchasing from us. This includes using CPNI in the normal course of business, such as to enable billing, customer service, and troubleshooting.
        To protect our rights and property.
        To protect our users and other carriers from fraudulent, abusive, or unlawful uses of the services.
        To comply with applicable laws and legal process. For any other purpose permitted by federal law.

Except for these purposes, we will not use, disclose, or permit access to your CPNI associated with Google Fiber Phone without your additional approval.

 Google Chrome Privacy Notice
Archive date: September 1, 2015
Chromecast is covered by the Google Privacy Policy. Learn more.

The Google Privacy Policy describes how we treat personal information when you use Google's products and services, including when you use Chrome browser and Chrome OS to access those products and services.

This Google Chrome Privacy Notice describes the privacy practices that are specific to the Chrome family of products. This includes the Chrome browser, Chrome OS, and Safe Browsing. Some of the features described in this Privacy Notice are available in other web browsers (e.g. you may choose to use Safe Browsing features in Mozilla Firefox), so remember that you should also read the privacy policy for the browser in which the features are running.

Not all of the features discussed in this Privacy Notice appear in all Chrome products. To keep things simple, however, we’re going to use the term "Chrome" on its own to refer to each of the products within the Chrome family. Where an individual Chrome product works in a different way we’ll be sure to highlight that.

For early adopters who want to test features that are still under development, we make available preview versions (also known as beta, dev and canary) of Chrome browser and Chrome OS in addition to the stable version. Although this Google Chrome Privacy Notice applies to the stable and preview versions, it may not be fully up to date when describing features still under development in the preview versions.

Google will notify you of any material changes to this policy, and you will always have the option to use Chrome in a way that does not send any personally identifiable information to Google, or to remove your information and discontinue using it.

For step-by-step guides to help manage your privacy preferences read our guide to Browsers, Google Chrome, Privacy and You.
Information Google receives when you use Chrome

You do not need to provide any personally identifying information in order to use Chrome.

When you use any browser, including Chrome, to contact Google's servers, by default Google receives standard log information including your system’s IP address and one or more cookies. You can configure Chrome browser and Chrome OS to not accept cookies from Google or other sites. Learn more about configuring cookies and site data in Chrome browser and Chrome OS.

If you use Chrome to access other Google services, such as using the search engine on the Google homepage or checking Gmail, the fact that you are using Chrome does not cause Google to receive any special or additional personally identifying information about you.

In addition, some Chrome features may send limited additional information to Google or your default search engine:

    If you use the Multiple Users feature of Chrome browser, you can set up personalized copies of Chrome browser for users who are sharing the same computing device. It isn’t intended to secure your data against other people using your device - so anyone with access to your device can view all the information in all profiles. To truly protect your data from being seen by others, use the built-in user accounts in your operating system.

    If you choose Google as your search engine, Chrome will contact Google when it starts or when you change networks so as to determine the best local web address to send search queries. When you type URLs or queries in the Chrome address bar (omnibox) or App Launcher search box, the letters you type may be sent to your default search engine so that the search engine’s prediction feature can automatically recommend terms or URLs you may be looking for. Additionally, for signed in users, the text that you type into the App Launcher search box can be sent to Google to provide recommendations for the contacts and the apps you might be looking for. If you accept a predicted query or URL, Chrome may send that information from the browser to your default search engine as well. Learn more about disabling server predictions in the omnibox and Google's logging policies for omnibox predictions.

    On mobile versions of the Chrome browser, you can enable "Touch to Search" which allows you to tap on a word to see a suggested search term. The word you tapped, the content of the page, and the URL of the page you're on will be sent to Google to provide the recommended search term.

    If you enable the feature in your device’s Today view, you can use Chrome on your iPhone or iPad to discover objects around you that are broadcasting web addresses as part of the Physical Web. When you use this feature, Chrome sends the web addresses broadcast by these objects to a Google server to find the title of the web page and help rank the results. The information sent to Google to provide this feature does not include any personal information from your device.

    If you navigate to a URL that does not exist, Chrome may send the URL to Google so we can help you find the URL you were looking for. We may also use this information in an aggregated way to help other web users - e.g. to let them know that the site may be down. Learn more about disabling suggestions on navigation errors.

    Chrome periodically contacts Google to perform functions such as checking for updates, checking connectivity status, validating current time, and estimating the number of active users. Each copy of Chrome browser includes a temporary randomly-generated installation number which will be sent to Google when you install and first use the product. The temporary number will be promptly deleted the first time that Chrome browser automatically checks for updates. If you received or reactivated your copy of the Chrome browser as part of a promotional campaign, it may also generate a non-unique promotional tag which is sent to Google when performing searches with Google and a unique token which is sent to Google when you first run and use the browser after installation, reinstallation, or reactivation. Chrome OS may send a non-unique promotional tag to Google periodically (including during initial set up) and when performing searches with Google. Furthermore, field trials may result in different variations of Chrome, and Chrome may send non-unique information to Google about which variation is active.

    If you grant an application, extension, or website permission to use Google’s Cloud Messaging, or if you use Chrome Sync, Chrome generates a randomly chosen device ID. This device ID is shared with Google but not accessible to third parties, and is revoked once it is no longer in use or when the Chrome profile is removed. From the device ID, Chrome then derives a registration ID that is shared with applications, extensions, or websites to securely pass messages from Google’s servers to the browser.

    Chrome OS contacts Google during initial device setup to determine if the device is subject to policies of an enterprise administrator. This process involves sending Google a part of a hash of a short-lived device identifier and receiving back from Google a list of hashed device identifiers that were possible matches, so Chrome OS may determine if the device is on that list.

    Chrome contacts Google for session policies when a user first signs in to Chrome or starts browsing without signing in (excluding Guest mode) on devices subject to policies. Chrome will check periodically for updates to policies. Enterprise policies may involve status and activity reporting for Chrome (including location information for Chrome OS devices) set up by the enterprise admin.

    If you sign in to Chrome browser, Chrome OS or an Android device that includes Chrome as a preinstalled application with your Google Account, this will enable the synchronization feature. Google will store certain information, such as history, bookmarked URLs as well as an image and a sample of text from the bookmarked page, passwords and other settings, on Google's servers in association with your Google Account. Information stored with your Account is protected by the Google Privacy Policy. We also store this information to make it available to you on other instances of Chrome in which you choose to sign in. Learn more about the specific information you may select to synchronize, and more about disabling Chrome’s synchronization feature in Chrome browser.

    If you are signed into Chrome with your Google Account, Google Drive and Docs, Sheets, Slides and Drawings will be automatically enabled for offline use. In that case, or if you otherwise enable offline use of a Google application in Chrome browser or install a Chrome application that stores data in your Google Drive account, Chrome may contact Google's servers and synchronize your data with a local copy to enable offline functionality.

    If you create a supervised user in Chrome browser or on Chrome OS with your Google Account, Google will synchronize and store certain information, such as the supervised user's history and other settings on Google's servers in association with your Google Account. We store this information in order to make it available to you at chrome.com/manage. Information stored with your account is protected by the Google Privacy Policy.

    If you use the Translate feature of Chrome, it will send the text you choose to be translated to Google for translation.

    If you use the Spellcheck feature of Chrome, which lets you use the same technology used in Google search to check your spelling, it will send the text you type to Google for spelling and grammar suggestions.

    If you use the speech input feature of Chrome, it will send Google an audio recording of your spoken query, your default browser language and the grammar settings of the web page for which you are using speech input. Google will use this information to convert the recorded audio into text. If you have enabled usage statistics and crash reports and you use the speech input feature, additional information will be sent to Google, including the URL of the website using speech input, your operating system, and the manufacturer and model of the computing device and audio hardware you are using.

    If you use Chrome’s AutoFill feature, which automatically completes web forms for you based on similar forms you have filled out before, Chrome will send Google limited information about the pages that have web forms, including a hashed URL of the web page and details of the form's structure, so that we can improve our AutoFill service for this web form. While the information that Chrome sends may include the fact that you typed information into the form, the actual text that you type in the fields will not be sent to Google unless you choose to store that data in your Google Account using Chrome’s synchronization feature.

    Some web forms handled by Chrome will offer you the option to use Google Payments rather than Chrome’s AutoFill feature to complete the form and make payments. If you use Google Payments, then to protect you from fraud, Chrome will collect information about your computer (including its location) and share it with Google Payments.

    If you use Chrome’s location feature, which allows you to share your location with a web site, Chrome will send local network information to Google Location Services to get an estimated location. Learn more about Google Location Services and enabling / disabling location features within Google Chrome. The local network information may include (depending on the capabilities of your device) information about the wifi routers closest to you, cell IDs of the cell towers closest to you, the strength of your wifi or cell signal, and the IP address that is currently assigned to your device. We use the information to process the location request and to operate, support, and improve the overall quality of Chrome and Google Location Services. The collected information described above will be anonymized and aggregated before being used by Google to develop new features or products and services, or to improve the overall quality of any of Google’s other products and services.

    If you are using a mobile version of Chrome, and you have granted your Android device or Chrome on iOS permission to access your location, then Chrome may use your location for Google location-enabled services, including for example enhancing omnibox searches.

    If you attempt to connect to a Google website using a secure connection, and the browser blocks the connection due to information that indicates you are being actively attacked by someone on the network (a "man in the middle attack"), Chrome may send information about that connection to Google for the purpose of helping to determine the extent of the attack and how the attack functions.

    If you enable Chrome’s “Reduce data usage” feature on your mobile device, Chrome will send your HTTP traffic through Google's optimizing servers to reduce the amount of data downloaded and improve performance. The optimizing service is disabled for connections to HTTPS origins, and for connections made from Incognito tabs.

    For Chrome browser and Chrome OS, you may choose to send usage statistics and crash reports to Google. You can manage this setting within the Chrome preferences page; for Chrome OS users, usage statistics and crash reports are enabled by default. This setting will apply to all users for a given installation of Chrome. The usage statistics and crash reports help us diagnose problems, help us understand how users interact with Chrome, and help us improve Chrome's performance.

    Chrome tries to avoid sending information that identifies you personally. Crash reports, however, can contain system information at the time of a malfunction, and errors leading up to a malfunction. We may share with third parties certain aggregated, non-personal information we derive from our analysis, such as how frequently certain types of crashes occur.

Information Google receives when you use the Safe Browsing feature on Chrome or other browsers

Google Chrome and certain third party browsers (including some versions of Mozilla’s Firefox and Apple’s Safari) includes Google's Safe Browsing feature. Safe Browsing sends and receives information between the browser you are using and Google's servers about suspicious websites -- for example when you visit a site that is suspected to be a phishing or malware site.

Your browser will contact Google's servers periodically to download the most recent "Safe Browsing" list, containing known phishing and malware sites. Google does not collect any account information or other personally identifying information as part of this contact, but it does receive standard log information, including an IP address and one or more cookies. The most recent copy of the list is stored locally on your system.

Each site you visit will be checked against the Safe Browsing list on your system. If there is a match against the list, your browser will send Google a hashed, partial copy of the site’s URL so that Google can send more information to your browser. Google cannot determine the real URL from this information. Read more information about how this works.

In addition, the following Safe Browsing features are specific to Chrome:

    Some versions of Chrome feature Safe Browsing technology that can identify potentially harmful sites and executable file downloads not already known by Google. Information regarding a potentially harmful site or executable file download (including the full URL of the site or executable file download) may be sent to Google to help determine whether the site or download is harmful. Google does not collect any account information or other personally identifying information as part of this contact, but does receive standard log information, including an IP address, URL visited and one or more cookies.

    Chrome uses Safe Browsing technology to scan your computer periodically to detect unwanted software that prevents you from changing your settings or otherwise interferes with the security and stability of your browser. If such software is detected, Chrome may offer you the option to download the software removal tool to remove it.

    You can choose to send additional data to help improve Safe Browsing when you access a site that appears to contain malware. This data is sent when you close or navigate away from a Safe Browsing warning page. The reports contain data, such as the URL and contents of the website as well as the URL of the page that directed you to that site, that can be used by Google to verify whether the site is still serving content that may exploit users.

    If usage statistics are enabled in Chrome and you visit a site that we think could be potentially harmful, certain additional data will be shared with Google, including the full URL that you visited, the "referer" header sent to that page, and the URL that matched the Safe Browsing list.

    You can always choose to disable the Safe Browsing feature within Chrome.

Information website operators receive when you visit a site using Chrome

Sites that you visit using Chrome will automatically receive standard log information similar to that received by Google. These sites may also set their own cookies or store site data on your system. You can restrict cookies and other site data in Chrome's preferences page.

If Chrome’s network actions prediction features are enabled, Chrome may look up the IP addresses of all links on webpages and open network connections to load webpages faster. Sites can also use pre-rendering technology to pre-load the links that you might click next.

If you use Chrome in incognito mode or guest mode, it will not transmit any pre-existing cookies to sites that you visit. Sites may deposit new cookies on your system while you are in these modes; these cookies will only be temporarily stored and transmitted to sites while you remain in incognito / guest mode. They will be deleted when you close the browser, close all open incognito windows or exit guest mode.

If you choose to use Chrome’s location feature, this service allows you to share your location with a site. Chrome will not allow a site to access your location without your permission. Google does not have control over third party websites or their privacy practices. Please carefully consider any website’s privacy practices before consenting to share your location with that website.
Information stored on your system when you use Chrome

Chrome stores some information locally on your system. This may include:

    Basic browsing history information, for example the URLs of pages that you visit, a cache file of text and images from those pages, and a list of some IP addresses linked from pages that you visit.

    A searchable index of most pages you visit (except for secure pages with "https" web addresses, such as some bank pages)

    Thumbnail-sized screenshots of most pages you visit

    Cookies or web storage data deposited on your system by websites you visit

    Locally-stored data saved by Add-ons

    A record of downloads you have made from websites

You can always choose to delete your browsing history information, in whole or in part.

You can also limit the information Chrome stores on your system by using incognito mode or guest mode. The Chrome browser offers both modes. Incognito mode is useful if you would still like to have access to information from your existing profile, such as suggestions based on your browsing history, while you are browsing. Guest mode is useful if you would prefer to begin a browsing session without seeing information from any existing profiles. In either of these modes, Chrome will not store basic browsing history information such as URLs, cached page text, or IP addresses of pages linked from the websites you visit. It will also not store snapshots of pages that you visit or keep a record of your downloads (although this information could still be stored elsewhere on your system, e.g. in a list of recently opened files). New cookies received in these modes will not be saved after you close your browser, close all open incognito windows or exit guest mode. You can see when you are in incognito / guest mode because the incognito icon appears in the top corner of your browser; in some cases the border of your browser window may also change color.

When you make changes to your browser configuration, such as by bookmarking a web page or changing your settings, this information is also saved. These changes are not affected by incognito / guest mode.

You can choose to have Chrome save your passwords for specific websites. Stored passwords can be reviewed in Chrome settings.
Unique Identifiers for Digital Rights Management

In order to allow certain content to be accessed using Chrome browser for Windows or Chrome OS, Chrome may be required to provide selected content partners and websites using Adobe Flash Access with a unique identifier that is stored on your system. You can disable this feature in the settings or reset the unique identifier’s value by reinstalling the operating system.

Parties to whom your unique identifier is provided could associate it with personally-identifiable information you provide to them. Google’s use of a unique identifier to provide content from Google servers is subject to the Google Privacy Policy. If you are accessing content from a third party service, you should review those parties’ privacy policies to learn more.
Using apps, extensions, themes, services, and other add-ons with Chrome

You may use apps, extensions, themes, services and other add-ons ("Add-ons") with Chrome, including some that may be pre-installed or integrated with Chrome and some that you may obtain from Chrome Web Store or other sources.

Before installing an Add-on, you should review the requested permissions. Add-ons may be designed to store, access, and share data stored locally or in your Google Drive account. Add-ons may use notifications that are sent through Google servers. Chrome may check for, download, and install updates to your Add-ons. Chrome may send usage indicators to Google for installed Add-ons. Some add-ons might require access to a unique identifier for digital rights management or for delivery of push messaging. You can disable the use of such an identifier by removing the add-on from Chrome.

From time to time, Google may discover an Add-on that poses a security vulnerability or violates the developer terms for Chrome Web Store or other legal agreements, laws, regulations or policies. Chrome may periodically download a list of such Add-ons from Google’s servers, and Google may remotely disable or remove such Add-ons from user systems in its sole discretion.

Add-ons developed and provided by Google may communicate with Google servers and are subject to the Google Privacy Policy unless otherwise indicated. Add-ons developed and provided by third parties are the responsibility of such third parties and may be subject to third party privacy policies. For example, a version of the Adobe Flash Player plug-in is preinstalled with Chrome. Adobe’s website at www.adobe.com provides more information on Adobe’s privacy practices with regard to Flash Player, and you can learn more about disabling Flash Player or any other plug-ins.
Uses

Information that Google receives when you use Chrome is processed in order to operate and improve Chrome and other Google services. Information that other website operators receive is subject to the privacy policies of those websites. Chrome stores information on your system in order to improve Chrome’s performance and to provide you with useful features and services.
More information

Google adheres to the US Safe Harbor privacy principles. For more information about the Safe Harbor framework or our registration, see the Department of Commerce's web site.

Further information about Chrome is available here.

For more information about our privacy practices, go to the full privacy policy. If you have additional questions, please consult this page. 

    
Google Play - Privacy Policy for Books

October 13, 2011 | View archived version

The main Google Privacy Policy describes how we treat personal information when you use Google's products and services, including Google Play. This additional policy for books on Google Play does three things: (1) it highlights key provisions of the main Google Privacy Policy in the context of books on Google Play, and (2) it describes privacy practices specific to books on Google Play.
Key provisions from the Google Privacy Policy

All of the provisions of the Google Privacy Policy apply to books on Google Play. Among other things, this means:

    We do not share your personal information with third parties, except in the narrow circumstances described in the Privacy Policy, such as emergencies or in response to valid legal process. For purchased books, we provide publishers with sales information, but do not provide personal information. For purchased books where we acted as the publisher's agent, we provide the publisher with information on the taxes we collect including the state, city and zip code from the purchaser's billing address. Google offers books for sale not only from Google Play, but also through resellers as well (for example, for purchase off a reseller's website or reading device). Also, our application developer partners use Google services to integrate with Google Play and provide you access to books from Google Play on their services. When you purchase a book through a reseller or use services of an application developer, you will need to log in with your Google Account information or create a Google Account if you don't have one. Once you have logged in, if you choose to synchronize your Google Play account with your account with the reseller or application developer, we will share information about your books on Google Play (e.g., all of your library shelves, titles, annotations, last five pages read for each book), except information regarding the seller(s) from whom you purchased your books, with the reseller or application developer. The application developer's or reseller's treatment of that information (and any other information you submit to the reseller or application developer directly) will be governed by the application developer's or reseller's privacy policy, not ours; please make sure to review any applicable privacy policy when you choose to purchase through a reseller or use services of an application developer.
    When you use books on Google Play, we receive log information similar to what we receive in Web Search. This may include information such as the query term or page request (which may include book titles or specific pages within a book you are browsing), Internet Protocol address, browser type, browser language, the date and time of your request and one or more cookies that may uniquely identify your browser or your account.
    Unless you are logged into your Google Account, your activity on Google Play will not be associated with your Google Account.
    You may choose to use optional features within books on Google Play (such as My Library or purchased books) or other optional Google services (such as our Web History service) that require a Google Account and which may receive and store information from books on Google Play in association with your Account. Books features that store information with your Account will show you the information you have stored and allow you to delete it (unless we are required to keep it by law or for legitimate and limited business purposes such as fraud investigations). However, you will not be able to delete the record of your purchase transaction (including the title of the book) from your Checkout account history.
    Google uses the information it stores for the purposes discussed in the Google Privacy Policy, including to improve our services (for example, to help customize recommendations for Google products or services you may be interested in), for security, and to report on aggregate user trends.
    Usage data from Google Play is subject to the same security standards that are outlined in our main Privacy Policy. 

Practices specific to books on Google Play product

The privacy practices that are specific to books on Google Play are:

    To fulfill contractual commitments to rightsholders who license us books, we enforce certain security limits (for example, to prevent abusive sharing of purchased books and to enforce page view limits on some book previews), and we also enforce limits on the numbers of browsers or devices that can access an account during a given period of time. In order to enforce limits on numbers of devices, we will store the unique ID numbers of your devices on our servers. You can delete a device ID number when you wish to stop using that device.
    You will need to have a Google Account in order to purchase books because account information is necessary to provide access to users who bought the book. We limit the information (such as books titles) we provide to credit card companies, and enable you to delete purchased books from your Google Account. However, you will not be able to delete the record of your purchase transaction (including the title of the book) from your Checkout account history.
    In order to enable consistent reading position across devices and provide useful navigation within a book, we store the last five pages (only) in each book a user has viewed with the user's account. We also store pages viewed for security monitoring and/or if the user elects to use the Web History service.
    Special legal privacy protections for users may apply in cases where law enforcement or civil litigants ask Google for information about what books an individual user has looked at. Some jurisdictions have special "books laws" saying that this information is not available unless the person asking for it meets a special, high standard such as proving to a court that there is a compelling need for the information, and that this need outweighs the reader's interest in reading anonymously under the United States First Amendment or other applicable laws. Where these "books laws" exist and apply to books on Google Play, we will raise them. We will also continue our strong history of fighting for high standards to protect users, regardless of whether a particular "books law" applies. In addition, we are committed to notifying the affected user if we receive such a request that may lead to disclosure of their information; if we are permitted to do so by law and if we have an effective way to contact the user, we will seek to