This is an archived version of our Privacy Policy. View the current version or all past versions.
Privacy Policy

Last modified: August 29, 2016 (view archived versions)

There are many different ways you can use our services – to search for and share information, to communicate with other people or to create new content. When you share information with us, for example by creating a Google Account, we can make those services even better – to show you more relevant search results and ads, to help you connect with people or to make sharing with others quicker and easier. As you use our services, we want you to be clear how we’re using information and the ways in which you can protect your privacy.

Our Privacy Policy explains:

    What information we collect and why we collect it.
    How we use that information.
    The choices we offer, including how to access and update information.

We’ve tried to keep it as simple as possible, but if you’re not familiar with terms like cookies, IP addresses, pixel tags and browsers, then read about these key terms first. Your privacy matters to Google so whether you are new to Google or a long-time user, please do take the time to get to know our practices – and if you have any questions contact us.
Information we collect

We collect information to provide better services to all of our users – from figuring out basic stuff like which language you speak, to more complex things like which ads you’ll find most useful, the people who matter most to you online, or which YouTube videos you might like.

We collect information in the following ways:

    Information you give us. For example, many of our services require you to sign up for a Google Account. When you do, we’ll ask for personal information, like your name, email address, telephone number or credit card to store with your account. If you want to take full advantage of the sharing features we offer, we might also ask you to create a publicly visible Google Profile, which may include your name and photo.

    Information we get from your use of our services. We collect information about the services that you use and how you use them, like when you watch a video on YouTube, visit a website that uses our advertising services, or view and interact with our ads and content. This information includes:

        Device information

        We collect device-specific information (such as your hardware model, operating system version, unique device identifiers, and mobile network information including phone number). Google may associate your device identifiers or phone number with your Google Account.

        Log information

        When you use our services or view content provided by Google, we automatically collect and store certain information in server logs. This includes:
            details of how you used our service, such as your search queries.
            telephony log information like your phone number, calling-party number, forwarding numbers, time and date of calls, duration of calls, SMS routing information and types of calls.
            Internet protocol address.
            device event information such as crashes, system activity, hardware settings, browser type, browser language, the date and time of your request and referral URL.
            cookies that may uniquely identify your browser or your Google Account.

        Location information

        When you use Google services, we may collect and process information about your actual location. We use various technologies to determine location, including IP address, GPS, and other sensors that may, for example, provide Google with information on nearby devices, Wi-Fi access points and cell towers.

        Unique application numbers

        Certain services include a unique application number. This number and information about your installation (for example, the operating system type and application version number) may be sent to Google when you install or uninstall that service or when that service periodically contacts our servers, such as for automatic updates.

        Local storage

        We may collect and store information (including personal information) locally on your device using mechanisms such as browser web storage (including HTML 5) and application data caches.

        Cookies and similar technologies

        We and our partners use various technologies to collect and store information when you visit a Google service, and this may include using cookies or similar technologies to identify your browser or device. We also use these technologies to collect and store information when you interact with services we offer to our partners, such as advertising services or Google features that may appear on other sites. Our Google Analytics product helps businesses and site owners analyze the traffic to their websites and apps. When used in conjunction with our advertising services, such as those using the DoubleClick cookie, Google Analytics information is linked, by the Google Analytics customer or by Google, using Google technology, with information about visits to multiple sites.

Information we collect when you are signed in to Google, in addition to information we obtain about you from partners, may be associated with your Google Account. When information is associated with your Google Account, we treat it as personal information. For more information about how you can access, manage or delete information that is associated with your Google Account, visit the Transparency and choice section of this policy.
How we use information we collect

We use the information we collect from all of our services to provide, maintain, protect and improve them, to develop new ones, and to protect Google and our users. We also use this information to offer you tailored content – like giving you more relevant search results and ads.

We may use the name you provide for your Google Profile across all of the services we offer that require a Google Account. In addition, we may replace past names associated with your Google Account so that you are represented consistently across all our services. If other users already have your email, or other information that identifies you, we may show them your publicly visible Google Profile information, such as your name and photo.

If you have a Google Account, we may display your Profile name, Profile photo, and actions you take on Google or on third-party applications connected to your Google Account (such as +1’s, reviews you write and comments you post) in our services, including displaying in ads and other commercial contexts. We will respect the choices you make to limit sharing or visibility settings in your Google Account.

When you contact Google, we keep a record of your communication to help solve any issues you might be facing. We may use your email address to inform you about our services, such as letting you know about upcoming changes or improvements.

We use information collected from cookies and other technologies, like pixel tags, to improve your user experience and the overall quality of our services. One of the products we use to do this on our own services is Google Analytics. For example, by saving your language preferences, we’ll be able to have our services appear in the language you prefer. When showing you tailored ads, we will not associate an identifier from cookies or similar technologies with sensitive categories, such as those based on race, religion, sexual orientation or health.

Our automated systems analyze your content (including emails) to provide you personally relevant product features, such as customized search results, tailored advertising, and spam and malware detection.

We may combine personal information from one service with information, including personal information, from other Google services – for example to make it easier to share things with people you know. Depending on your account settings, your activity on other sites and apps may be associated with your personal information in order to improve Google’s services and the ads delivered by Google.

We will ask for your consent before using information for a purpose other than those that are set out in this Privacy Policy.

Google processes personal information on our servers in many countries around the world. We may process your personal information on a server located outside the country where you live.
Transparency and choice

People have different privacy concerns. Our goal is to be clear about what information we collect, so that you can make meaningful choices about how it is used. For example, you can:

    Review and update your Google activity controls to decide what types of data, such as videos you’ve watched on YouTube or past searches, you would like saved with your account when you use Google services. You can also visit these controls to manage whether certain activity is stored in a cookie or similar technology on your device when you use our services while signed-out of your account.
    Review and control certain types of information tied to your Google Account by using Google Dashboard.
    View and edit your preferences about the Google ads shown to you on Google and across the web, such as which categories might interest you, using Ads Settings. You can also visit that page to opt out of certain Google advertising services.
    Adjust how the Profile associated with your Google Account appears to others.
    Control who you share information with through your Google Account.
    Take information associated with your Google Account out of many of our services.
    Choose whether your Profile name and Profile photo appear in shared endorsements that appear in ads.

You may also set your browser to block all cookies, including cookies associated with our services, or to indicate when a cookie is being set by us. However, it’s important to remember that many of our services may not function properly if your cookies are disabled. For example, we may not remember your language preferences.
Information you share

Many of our services let you share information with others. Remember that when you share information publicly, it may be indexable by search engines, including Google. Our services provide you with different options on sharing and removing your content.
Accessing and updating your personal information

Whenever you use our services, we aim to provide you with access to your personal information. If that information is wrong, we strive to give you ways to update it quickly or to delete it – unless we have to keep that information for legitimate business or legal purposes. When updating your personal information, we may ask you to verify your identity before we can act on your request.

We may reject requests that are unreasonably repetitive, require disproportionate technical effort (for example, developing a new system or fundamentally changing an existing practice), risk the privacy of others, or would be extremely impractical (for instance, requests concerning information residing on backup systems).

Where we can provide information access and correction, we will do so for free, except where it would require a disproportionate effort. We aim to maintain our services in a manner that protects information from accidental or malicious destruction. Because of this, after you delete information from our services, we may not immediately delete residual copies from our active servers and may not remove information from our backup systems.
Information we share

We do not share personal information with companies, organizations and individuals outside of Google unless one of the following circumstances applies:

    With your consent

    We will share personal information with companies, organizations or individuals outside of Google when we have your consent to do so. We require opt-in consent for the sharing of any sensitive personal information.

    With domain administrators

    If your Google Account is managed for you by a domain administrator (for example, for Google Apps users) then your domain administrator and resellers who provide user support to your organization will have access to your Google Account information (including your email and other data). Your domain administrator may be able to:
        view statistics regarding your account, like statistics regarding applications you install.
        change your account password.
        suspend or terminate your account access.
        access or retain information stored as part of your account.
        receive your account information in order to satisfy applicable law, regulation, legal process or enforceable governmental request.
        restrict your ability to delete or edit information or privacy settings.

    Please refer to your domain administrator’s privacy policy for more information.

    For external processing

    We provide personal information to our affiliates or other trusted businesses or persons to process it for us, based on our instructions and in compliance with our Privacy Policy and any other appropriate confidentiality and security measures.

    For legal reasons

    We will share personal information with companies, organizations or individuals outside of Google if we have a good-faith belief that access, use, preservation or disclosure of the information is reasonably necessary to:
        meet any applicable law, regulation, legal process or enforceable governmental request.
        enforce applicable Terms of Service, including investigation of potential violations.
        detect, prevent, or otherwise address fraud, security or technical issues.
        protect against harm to the rights, property or safety of Google, our users or the public as required or permitted by law.

We may share non-personally identifiable information publicly and with our partners – like publishers, advertisers or connected sites. For example, we may share information publicly to show trends about the general use of our services.

If Google is involved in a merger, acquisition or asset sale, we will continue to ensure the confidentiality of any personal information and give affected users notice before personal information is transferred or becomes subject to a different privacy policy.
Information security

We work hard to protect Google and our users from unauthorized access to or unauthorized alteration, disclosure or destruction of information we hold. In particular:

    We encrypt many of our services using SSL.
    We offer you two step verification when you access your Google Account, and a Safe Browsing feature in Google Chrome.
    We review our information collection, storage and processing practices, including physical security measures, to guard against unauthorized access to systems.
    We restrict access to personal information to Google employees, contractors and agents who need to know that information in order to process it for us, and who are subject to strict contractual confidentiality obligations and may be disciplined or terminated if they fail to meet these obligations.

When this Privacy Policy applies

Our Privacy Policy applies to all of the services offered by Google Inc. and its affiliates, including YouTube, services Google provides on Android devices, and services offered on other sites (such as our advertising services), but excludes services that have separate privacy policies that do not incorporate this Privacy Policy.

Our Privacy Policy does not apply to services offered by other companies or individuals, including products or sites that may be displayed to you in search results, sites that may include Google services, or other sites linked from our services. Our Privacy Policy does not cover the information practices of other companies and organizations who advertise our services, and who may use cookies, pixel tags and other technologies to serve and offer relevant ads.
Compliance and cooperation with regulatory authorities

We regularly review our compliance with our Privacy Policy. We also adhere to several self regulatory frameworks, including the EU-US Privacy Shield Framework. When we receive formal written complaints, we will contact the person who made the complaint to follow up. We work with the appropriate regulatory authorities, including local data protection authorities, to resolve any complaints regarding the transfer of personal data that we cannot resolve with our users directly.
Changes

Our Privacy Policy may change from time to time. We will not reduce your rights under this Privacy Policy without your explicit consent. We will post any privacy policy changes on this page and, if the changes are significant, we will provide a more prominent notice (including, for certain services, email notification of privacy policy changes). We will also keep prior versions of this Privacy Policy in an archive for your review.
Specific product practices

The following notices explain specific privacy practices with respect to certain Google products and services that you may use:

    Chrome and Chrome OS
    Play Books
    Payments
    Fiber
    Project Fi
    Google Apps for Education

For more information about some of our most popular services, you can visit the Google Product Privacy Guide.
Other useful privacy and security related materials

Further useful privacy and security related materials can be found through Google’s policies and principles pages, including:

    Information about our technologies and principles, which includes, among other things, more information on
        how Google uses cookies.
        technologies we use for advertising.
        how we recognize patterns like faces.
    A page that explains what data is shared with Google when you visit websites that use our advertising, analytics and social products.
    The Privacy Checkup tool, which makes it easy to review your key privacy settings.
    Google’s safety center, which provides information on how to stay safe and secure online.

"access to your personal information"

For example, with Google Dashboard you can quickly and easily see some of the data associated with your Google Account. Learn more.
"ads you’ll find most useful"

For example, if you frequently visit websites and blogs about gardening, you may see ads related to gardening as you browse the web. Learn more.
"advertising services"

For example, if you frequently visit websites and blogs about gardening that show our ads, you may start to see ads related to this interest as you browse the web. Learn more.
"and other sensors"

Your device may have sensors that provide information to assist in a better understanding of your location. For example, an accelerometer can be used to determine things like speed, or a gyroscope to figure out direction of travel. Learn more.
"collect information"

This includes information like your usage data and preferences, Gmail messages, G+ profile, photos, videos, browsing history, map searches, docs, or other Google-hosted content. Learn more.
"combine personal information from one service with information, including personal information, from other Google services"

For example, when you’re signed in to your Google Account and search on Google, you can see search results from the public web, along with pages, photos, and Google+ posts from your friends and people who know you or follow you on Google+ may see your posts and profile in their results. Learn more.
"connect with people"

For example, you could get suggestions of people you might know or want to connect with on Google+, based on the connections you have with people on other Google products, like Gmail and people who have a connection with you may see your profile as a suggestion. Learn more.
"credit card"

Whilst we currently don’t ask for a credit card during sign up, verifying your age through a small credit card transaction is one way to confirm that you meet our age requirements in case your account was disabled after you have entered a birthday indicating you are not old enough to have a Google Account. Learn more.
"develop new ones"

For example, Google’s spell checking software was developed by analyzing previous searches where users had corrected their own spelling. Learn more.
"device identifiers"

Device identifiers let Google know which unique device you are using to access our services, which can be used to customise our service to your device or analyse any device issues related to our services. Learn more.
"device-specific information"

For example, when you visit Google Play from your desktop, Google can use this information to help you decide on which devices you'd like your purchases to be available for use. Learn more.
"improve your user experience"

For example, cookies allow us to analyse how users interact with our services. Learn more.
"legal process or enforceable governmental request"

Like other technology and communications companies, Google regularly receives requests from governments and courts around the world to hand over user data. Our legal team reviews each and every request, regardless of type, and we frequently push back when the requests appear to be overly broad or don’t follow the correct process. Learn more.
"limit sharing or visibility settings"

For example, you can choose your settings so your name and photo do not appear in an ad. Learn more.
"linked with information about visits to multiple sites"

Google Analytics is based on first-party cookies. Data generated through Google Analytics can be linked, by the Google Analytics customer or by Google, using Google technology, to third-party cookies, related to visits to other websites, for instance when an advertiser wants to use its Google Analytics data to create more relevant ads, or to further analyze its traffic. Learn more.
"maintain"

For example, we continuously monitor our systems to check that they are working as intended and in order to detect and fix errors. Learn more.
"may collect and process information about your actual location"

For example, Google Maps can center the maps view on your current location. Learn more.
"may not function properly"

For example, we use a cookie called ‘lbcs’ which makes it possible for you to open many Google Docs in one browser. Learn more.
"and our partners"

We allow trusted businesses to use cookies or similar technologies for advertising and research purposes on our services. Learn more.
"phone number"

For example, if you add a phone number as a recovery option, if you forget your password Google can send you a text message with a code to enable you to reset it. Learn more.
"protect Google and our users"

For example, if you're concerned about unauthorized access to your email, "Last account activity" in Gmail shows you information about recent activity in your email, such as the IP addresses that accessed your mail, the associated location, as well as the time and date. Learn more.
"protect"

For example, one reason we collect and analyze IP addresses and cookies is to protect our services against automated abuse. Learn more.
"provide"

For example, the IP address assigned to your device is used to send the data you requested back to your device. Learn more.
"sharing"

For example, with Google+, you have many different sharing options. Learn more.
"sharing with others quicker and easier"

For example, if someone is already a contact, Google will autocomplete their name if you want to add them to a message in Gmail. Learn more.
"the people who matter most to you online"

For example, when you type an address in the To, Cc, or Bcc field of a message you're composing, Gmail will suggest addresses from your Contacts list. Learn more.
"to make it easier to share things with people you know"

For example, if you have communicated with someone via Gmail and want to add them to a Google Doc or an event in Google Calendar, Google makes it easy to do so by autocompleting their email address when you start to type in their name. Learn more.
"view and interact with our ads"

For example, we regularly report to advertisers on whether we served their ad to a page and whether that ad was likely to be seen by users (as opposed to, for example, being on part of the page to which users did not scroll). Learn more.
"We may share aggregated, non-personally identifiable information publicly"

When lots of people start searching for something, it can provide very useful information about particular trends at that time. Learn more.
"Wi-Fi access points and cell towers"

For example, Google can approximate your device’s location based on the known location of nearby cell towers. Learn more.
"more relevant search results"

For example, we can make search more relevant and interesting for you by including photos, posts, and more from you and your friends. Learn more.
"removing your content"

For example, you can delete your Web & App Activity, your blog, a Google Site you own, your YouTube Channel, your Google+ profile or your entire Google account. Learn more.
"to show trends"

You can see some of these at Google Trends and YouTube Trending Videos. Learn more.
"your activity on other sites and apps"

This activity might come from your use of Google products like Chrome Sync or from your visits to sites and apps that partner with Google. Many websites and apps partner with Google to improve their content and services. For example, a website might use our advertising services (like AdSense) or analytics tools (like Google Analytics). These products share information about your activity with Google and, depending on your account settings and the products in use (for instance, when a partner uses Google Analytics in conjunction with our advertising services), this data may be associated with your personal information. Learn more.



Key terms

    Affiliates
    Algorithm
    Application data cache
    Browser web storage
    Cookies
    Device
    Google Account
    Referrer URL
    IP address
    Non-personally identifiable information
    Personal information
    Pixel tag
    Sensitive personal information
    Server logs
    Unique identifiers

Affiliates

An affiliate is an entity that belongs to the Google group of companies, including the following companies that provide consumer services in the EU: Google Ireland Limited, Google Commerce Ltd, Google Payment Corp, and Google Dialer Inc. Learn more about the companies providing business services in the EU.
Algorithm

A process or set of rules followed by a computer in performing problem-solving operations.
Application data cache

An application data cache is a data repository on a device. It can, for example, enable a web application to run without an internet connection and improve the performance of the application by enabling faster loading of content.
Browser web storage

Browser web storage enables websites to store data in a browser on a device. When used in "local storage" mode, it enables data to be stored across sessions. This makes data retrievable even after a browser has been closed and reopened. One technology that facilitates web storage is HTML 5.
Cookies

A cookie is a small file containing a string of characters that is sent to your computer when you visit a website. When you visit the site again, the cookie allows that site to recognize your browser. Cookies may store user preferences and other information. You can configure your browser to refuse all cookies or to indicate when a cookie is being sent. However, some website features or services may not function properly without cookies. Learn more about how Google uses cookies and how Google uses data, including cookies, when you use our partners' sites or apps.
Device

A device is a computer that can be used to access Google services. For example, desktop computers, tablets, smart speakers, and smartphones are all considered devices.
Google Account

You may access some of our services by signing up for a Google Account and providing us with some personal information (typically your name, email address, and a password). This account information is used to authenticate you when you access Google services and protect your account from unauthorized access by others. You can edit or delete your account at any time through your Google Account settings.
Referrer URL

A Referrer URL (Uniform Resource Locator) is information transmitted to a destination webpage by a web browser, typically when you click a link to that page. The Referrer URL contains the URL of the last webpage the browser visited.
IP address

Every device connected to the Internet is assigned a number known as an Internet protocol (IP) address. These numbers are usually assigned in geographic blocks. An IP address can often be used to identify the location from which a device is connecting to the Internet.
Non-personally identifiable information

This is information that is recorded about users so that it no longer reflects or references an individually-identifiable user.
Personal information

This is information that you provide to us which personally identifies you, such as your name, email address, or billing information, or other data that can be reasonably linked to such information by Google, such as information we associate with your Google Account.
Pixel tag

A pixel tag is a type of technology placed on a website or within the body of an email for the purpose of tracking certain activity, such as views of a website or when an email is opened. Pixel tags are often used in combination with cookies.
Sensitive personal information

This is a particular category of personal information relating to topics such as confidential medical facts, racial or ethnic origins, political or religious beliefs, or sexuality.
Server logs

Like most websites, our servers automatically record the page requests made when you visit our sites. These “server logs” typically include your web request, Internet Protocol address, browser type, browser language, the date and time of your request, and one or more cookies that may uniquely identify your browser.

A typical log entry for a search for “cars” looks like this:

123.45.67.89 - 25/Mar/2003 10:15:32 -
http://www.google.com/search?q=cars -
Firefox 1.0.7; Windows NT 5.1 -
740674ce2123e969

    123.45.67.89 is the Internet Protocol address assigned to the user by the user’s ISP. Depending on the user’s service, a different address may be assigned to the user by their service provider each time they connect to the Internet.
    25/Mar/2003 10:15:32 is the date and time of the query.
    http://www.google.com/search?q=cars is the requested URL, including the search query.
    Firefox 1.0.7; Windows NT 5.1 is the browser and operating system being used.
    740674ce2123a969 is the unique cookie ID assigned to this particular computer the first time it visited Google. (Cookies can be deleted by users. If the user has deleted the cookie from the computer since the last time they’ve visited Google, then it will be the unique cookie ID assigned to their device the next time they visit Google from that particular device).

Unique identifiers

A unique identifier is a string of characters that can be used to uniquely identify a browser, app, or device. Different identifiers vary in how permanent they are, whether they can be reset by users, and how they can be accessed.

Unique identifiers can be used for various purposes, including security and fraud detection, syncing services such as your email inbox, remembering your preferences, and providing personalized advertising. For example, unique identifiers stored in cookies help sites display content in your browser in your preferred language. You can configure your browser to refuse all cookies or to indicate when a cookie is being sent. Learn more about how Google uses cookies.

On other platforms besides browsers, unique identifiers are used to recognize a specific device or app on that device. For example, a unique identifier such as the Advertising ID is used to provide relevant advertising on Android devices, and can be managed in your device’s settings. Unique identifiers may also be incorporated into a device by its manufacturer (sometimes called a universally unique ID or UUID), such as the IMEI-number of a mobile phone. For example, a device’s unique identifier can be used to customize our service to your device or analyze device issues related to our services.


This is an archived version of the Chrome privacy notice. View the current privacy notice.
Google Chrome Privacy Notice
Archive date: September 24, 2018

Learn how to control the information that's collected, stored, and shared when you use the Google Chrome browser on your computer or mobile device, Chrome OS, and when you enable Safe Browsing in Chrome. Although this policy describes features that are specific to Chrome, any personal information that is provided to Google or stored in your Google Account will be used and protected in accordance with the Google Privacy Policy.

If you enable Google Play apps on your Chromebook, the use and protection of information collected by Google Play or the Android operating system is governed by the Play Terms of Service and Google Privacy Policy. Details specific to Chrome are provided in this Notice where relevant.
Details about the Privacy Notice

In this Privacy Notice, we use the term "Chrome" to refer to all the products in the Chrome family listed above. If there are differences in our policy between products, we'll point them out.

"Beta," "Dev," or "Canary" versions of Chrome let you test new features still being created in Chrome. This Privacy Notice applies to all versions of Chrome, but might not be up-to-date for features still under development.

For step-by-step guides to managing your privacy preferences, read this overview of Chrome's privacy controls.
Table of contents:

    Browser modes
    Managing users in Chrome
    Safe Browsing policies
    Policy on using apps, extensions, themes, services, and other add-ons
    Server log privacy information
    More information

Browser modes

You don't need to provide any personal information to use Chrome, but Chrome has different modes that you can use to change or improve your browsing experience. Privacy practices are different depending on the mode that you're using.
Basic browser mode

The basic browser mode stores information locally on your system. This information might include:

    Browsing history information. For example, Chrome stores the URLs of pages that you visit, a cache of text, images and other resources from those pages, and, if the network actions prediction feature is turned on, a list of some of the IP addresses linked from those pages.

    Personal information and passwords, to help you fill out forms or sign in to sites you visit.

    A list of permissions that you have granted to websites.

    Thumbnail-sized screenshots of pages that you visit most often.

    Cookies or data from websites that you visit.

    Data saved by add-ons.

    A record of what you downloaded from websites.

You can manage this information in several ways:

    You can delete your browsing history information.

    You can clear your cookies and site data by visiting the Cookies and Site Data dialog at chrome://settings/clearBrowserData.

    You can stop Chrome from accepting cookies from Google or other sites. Learn more.

    You can review stored passwords in Chrome settings. Learn more.

    You can view and manage your stored Autofill information. Learn more.

The personal information that Chrome stores won't be sent to Google unless you choose to store that data in your Google Account by turning on Chrome sync. Learn More.
How Chrome handles your information

Information for website operators. Sites that you visit using Chrome will automatically receive standard log information, including your system’s IP address and data from cookies or similar technologies. In general, the fact that you use Chrome to access Google services, such as Gmail, does not cause Google to receive any additional personally identifying information about you. On Google websites and other websites that opt in, if Chrome detects signs that you are being actively attacked by someone on the network ( a "man in the middle attack"), Chrome may send information about that connection to Google or the website you visited to help determine the extent of the attack and how the attack functions. Google provides participating website owners with reports about attacks occurring on their sites.

Prerendering. To load web pages faster, Chrome has a setting that can look up the IP addresses of links on a web page and open network connections. Sites and Android apps can also ask the browser to preload the pages you might visit next. Preloading requests from Android apps are controlled by the same setting as Chrome-initiated predictions. But preloading instructions from sites are always performed, regardless of whether Chrome’s network prediction feature is enabled. If prerendering is requested, whether by Chrome or by a site or app, the preloaded site is allowed to set and read its own cookies just as if you had visited it, even if you don’t end up visiting the prerendered page. Learn more.

Location. To get more geographically relevant information, Chrome gives you the option to share your location with a site. Chrome won't allow a site to access your location without your permission; however, on mobile devices, Chrome automatically shares your location with your default search engine if the Chrome app has permission to access your location and you haven’t blocked geolocation for the associated web site. Chrome uses Google Location Services to estimate your location. The information that Chrome sends to Google Location Services may include:

    The Wi-Fi routers closest to you
    Cell IDs of the cell towers closest to you
    The strength of your Wi-Fi or cell signal
    The IP address that is currently assigned to your device

Google doesn't have control over third-party websites or their privacy practices, so be cautious when sharing your location with a website.

Updates. Chrome periodically sends information to Google to check for updates, get connectivity status, validate the current time, and estimate the number of active users.

Search features. If Google is your default search engine, Chrome contacts Google when you start searching or when you change networks, so you can get the best local web address for sending search queries. If you are signed in to a Google site and Google is your default search engine, searches you perform using the address bar in Chrome are stored in your Google account.

Search prediction service. To help you find information faster, Chrome uses the prediction service provided by your default search engine to offer likely completions to the text you are typing. When you search using the address bar in Chrome, the characters you type (even if you haven’t hit "enter" yet) are sent to your default search engine. If Google is your default search engine, predictions are based on your own search history, topics related to what you’re typing and what other people are searching for. Learn more. Predictions can also based on your browsing history. Learn more.

Navigation assistance. When you can’t connect to a web page, you can get suggestions for alternative pages similar to the one you're trying to reach. In order to offer you suggestions, Chrome sends Google the URL of the page you're trying to reach.

Autofill and password management. Chrome sends Google limited, anonymous information about the web forms that you encounter, including a hashed URL of the web page and details of the form's structure, so that we can improve our Autofill and password management services.

Payments. If you have turned on Chrome sync and you have credit cards stored in your Google Payments Account, then Chrome will offer you the option of filling those cards into web forms. In addition, if you enter a new credit card into a web form, Chrome will offer to save your credit card and related billing information to your Google Payments account. If you use a card from Google Payments or choose to save your credit card in your Google Payments account for future use, Chrome will collect information about your computer and share it with Google Payments to protect you from fraud. On Android, if supported by the merchant, Chrome will also allow you to pay using Android Pay.

Language. In order to customize your browsing experience based on languages that you prefer to read, Chrome will keep a count of the most popular languages of the sites you visited. This language preference will be sent to Google to customize your experience in Chrome. If you have turned on Chrome sync, this language profile will be associated with your Google Account and, if you include Chrome history in your Google Web & App Activity, may be used to personalize your experience in other Google products. View Activity Controls.

Web Apps on Android. On Android devices, if you select "add to homescreen" for a website that has been optimized for fast, reliable performance on mobile devices, then Chrome will use a Google server to create a native Android package for that website on your device. The Android package allows you to interact with the web app as you would with an Android app. For example, the web app will appear in your list of installed apps. Learn more.

Usage statistics and crash reports. By default, usage statistics and crash reports are sent to Google to help us improve our products. Usage statistics contain information such as preferences, button clicks, and memory usage. In general, usage statistics do not include web page URLs or personal information, but, if you are signed in to Chrome and syncing your browsing history in your Google Account without a Sync passphrase, then Chrome usage statistics include information about the web pages you visit and your usage of them. For example, we may collect statistics to identify web pages that load slowly. We use this information to improve our products and services, and to give web developers insight into improving their pages. Crash reports contain system information at the time of the crash, and may contain web page URLs or personal information, depending on what was happening at the time the crash report was triggered. We may share aggregated, non-personally identifiable information publicly and with partners — like publishers, advertisers or web developers. You can change whether usage statistics and crash reports are sent to Google at any time. Learn more. If Google Play apps are enabled on your Chromebook and Chrome usage statistics are enabled, then Android diagnostic and usage data is also sent to Google.

Media licenses. Some websites encrypt media to protect against unauthorized access and copying. For HTML5 sites, this key exchange is done using the Encrypted Media Extensions API. In the process of allowing access to this media, session identifiers and licenses may be stored locally. These identifiers can be cleared by the user in Chrome using Clear Browsing Data with "Media licenses" enabled. For sites that use Adobe Flash Access, Chrome browser for Windows or Chrome OS, provides a unique identifier to content partners and websites. The identifier is stored on your system. You can deny this access in the settings under Content Settings, Protected content, and reset the ID using Clear Browsing Data with "Media licenses" enabled. If you access HD content on Chrome OS, a content provider may ask Chrome for a certificate to verify the eligibility of the device. To verify your device, your Chromebook will share data about its hardware attributes with the website, and will use Verified Access to certify that its cryptographic keys are protected by Chrome hardware. Chrome will prompt you to allow or deny this verification check. Learn more.

Other Google services. This notice describes the Google services that are enabled by default in Chrome. In addition, Chrome may offer other Google web services. For example, if you encounter a page in a different language, Chrome will offer to send the text to Google for translation. You will be notified of your options for controlling these services when you first use them. You can find more information in the Chrome Privacy Whitepaper.
Identifiers in Chrome

Chrome includes a number of identifiers necessary to power features. For example, if you use push messaging, an identifier is created in order to deliver notices to you. Where possible, we use non-unique identifiers and remove identifiers when they are no longer needed. Additionally, the following identifiers help us develop, distribute, and promote Chrome, but are not directly related to a Chrome feature.

    Installation tracking. Each copy of the Windows desktop version of the Chrome browser includes a temporary randomly generated installation number that is sent to Google when you install and first use Chrome. This temporary identifier helps us estimate the number of installed browsers, and will be deleted the first time Chrome updates. The mobile version of Chrome uses a variant of the device identifier on an ongoing basis to track the number of installations of Chrome.

    Promotion tracking. In order to help us track the success of promotional campaigns, Chrome generates a unique token that is sent to Google when you first run and use the browser. In addition, if you received or reactivated your copy of the desktop version of the Chrome browser as part of a promotional campaign and Google is your default search engine, then searches from the omnibox will include a non-unique promotional tag. All mobile versions of the Chrome browser also include a non-unique promotional tag with searches from the omnibox. Chrome OS may also send a non-unique promotional tag to Google periodically (including during initial setup) and when performing searches with Google. Learn more.

    Field trials. We sometimes conduct limited tests of new features. Chrome includes a seed number that is randomly selected on first run to assign browsers to experiment groups. Experiments may also be limited by country (determined by your IP address), operating system, Chrome version, and other parameters. A list of field trials that are currently active on your installation of Chrome is included in all requests sent to Google. Learn more.

Signed-in, Synced Chrome mode

When you sign in to the Chrome browser or a Chromebook and sync with your Google Account, your personal browsing data is saved on Google's servers and synced with your account. This type of information can include:

    Browsing history
    Bookmarks
    Tabs
    Passwords and Autofill information
    Other browser settings, like installed extensions

These settings are loaded for you anytime you sign in and sync to Chrome on other computers and devices. On desktop versions of Chrome, signing into or out of any Google web service (e.g. google.com) signs you into or out of Chrome. Sync is only enabled if you choose. To customize the specific information that you synchronize, use the "Settings" menu. Learn more. You can see the amount of Chrome data stored for your Google Account and manage it on the Chrome Sync Dashboard. On the Dashboard, except for Google Accounts created through Family Link, you can also disable synchronization completely and delete all the associated data from Google’s servers. Learn more. For children with Google Accounts created in Family Link, sign-in is required and Chrome Sync cannot be disabled because it provides parent management features, such as website restrictions. However, children with these accounts can still delete their data and disable synchronization of most data types. Learn More. The Privacy Notice for Google Accounts created in Family Link applies to Chrome Sync data stored in those accounts.
How Chrome handles your synced information

When you sync Chrome with your Google Account, we use your browsing data to improve and personalize your experience within Chrome. You can also personalize your experience on other Google products, by allowing your Chrome history to be included in your Google Web & App Activity. Learn more.

You can change this setting on your Account History page or manage your private data whenever you like. If you don't use your Chrome data to personalize your Google experience outside of Chrome, Google will only use your Chrome data after it's anonymized and aggregated with data from other users. Google uses this data to develop new features, products, and services, and to improve the overall quality of existing products and services. If you would like to use Google's cloud to store and sync your Chrome data but you don't want Google to access the data, you can encrypt all of your synced data with your own sync passphrase. Learn more.
Incognito mode and guest mode

You can limit the information Chrome stores on your system by using incognito mode or guest mode. In these modes, Chrome won't store certain information, such as:

    Basic browsing history information like URLs, cached page text, or IP addresses of pages linked from the websites you visit
    Snapshots of pages that you visit
    Records of your downloads, although the files you download will still be stored elsewhere on your computer or device

How Chrome handles your incognito or guest information

Cookies. Chrome won't share existing cookies with sites you visit in incognito or guest mode. Sites may deposit new cookies on your system while you are in these modes, but they'll only be stored and transmitted until you close the last incognito or guest window.

Browser configuration changes. When you make changes to your browser configuration, like bookmarking a web page or changing your settings, this information is saved. These changes are not affected by incognito or guest mode.

Permissions. Permissions you grant in incognito mode are not saved to your existing profile.

Profile information. In incognito mode, you will still have access to information from your existing profile, such as suggestions based on your browsing history and saved passwords, while you are browsing. In guest mode, you can browse without seeing information from any existing profiles.
Managing Users in Chrome
Managing users for personal Chrome use

You can set up personalized versions of Chrome for users sharing one device or computer. Note that anyone with access to your device can view all the information in all profiles. To truly protect your data from being seen by others, use the built-in user accounts in your operating system. Learn more.
Managing users on Chrome for Enterprise

Some Chrome browsers or Chromebooks are managed by a school or company. In that case, the administrator has the ability to apply policies to the browser or Chromebook. Chrome contacts Google to check for these policies when a user first starts browsing (except in guest mode). Chrome checks periodically for updates to policies.

An administrator can set up a policy for status and activity reporting for Chrome, including location information for Chrome OS devices. Your administrators may also have the ability to access, monitor, use or disclose data accessed from your managed device.
Safe Browsing practices

Google Chrome and certain third-party browsers, like some versions of Mozilla Firefox and Apple’s Safari, include Google's Safe Browsing feature. With Safe Browsing, information about suspicious websites is sent and received between the browser you are using and Google's servers.
How Safe Browsing works

Your browser contacts Google's servers periodically to download the most recent "Safe Browsing" list, which contains known phishing and malware sites. The most recent copy of the list is stored locally on your system. Google doesn't collect any account information or other personally identifying information as part of this contact. However, it does receive standard log information, including an IP address and cookies.

Each site you visit is checked against the Safe Browsing list on your system. If there's a match, your browser sends Google a hashed, partial copy of the site’s URL so that Google can send more information to your browser. Google cannot determine the real URL from this information. Learn more.

The following Safe Browsing features are specific to Chrome:

    Some versions of Chrome feature Safe Browsing technology that can identify potentially harmful sites and potentially dangerous file types not already known by Google. The full URL of the site or potentially dangerous file might also be sent to Google to help determine whether the site or file is harmful.

    Chrome uses Safe Browsing technology to scan your computer periodically, in order to detect unwanted software that prevents you from changing your settings or otherwise interferes with the security and stability of your browser. Learn more. If this kind of software is detected, Chrome might offer you the option to download the Chrome Cleanup Tool to remove it.

    You can choose to send additional data to help improve Safe Browsing when you access a site that appears to contain malware or when Chrome detects unwanted software on your computer. Learn more.

    If you use Chrome’s password manager, Safe Browsing checks with Google when you enter any saved password on an uncommon page to protect you from phishing attacks. In addition, Safe Browsing protects your Google Account password. If you enter it on a likely phishing site, Chrome will prompt you to change your Google account password. If you sync your browsing history, Chrome will also flag your Google Account as likely phished.

    If you are a Safe Browsing user and you are syncing your Chrome browsing history to your Google account, then, to improve the safety and utility of web feature permissions, Chrome may anonymously report the domains on which you grant, reject, and revoke permissions, or ignore or dismiss permission prompts.

    You can always choose to disable the Safe Browsing feature within Chrome.

Privacy practices of apps, extensions, themes, services, and other add-ons

You can use apps, extensions, themes, services and other add-ons with Chrome, including some that may be preinstalled or integrated with Chrome. Add-ons developed and provided by Google may communicate with Google servers and are subject to the Google Privacy Policy unless otherwise indicated. Add-ons developed and provided by others are the responsibility of the add-on creators and may have different privacy policies.
Managing add-ons

Before installing an add-on, you should review the requested permissions. Add-ons can have permission to do various things, like:

    Store, access, and share data stored locally or in your Google Drive account
    View and access content on websites you visit
    Use notifications that are sent through Google servers

Chrome can interact with add-ons in a few different ways:

    Checking for updates
    Downloading and installing updates
    Sending usage indicators to Google about the add-ons

Some add-ons might require access to a unique identifier for digital rights management or for delivery of push messaging. You can disable the use of identifiers by removing the add-on from Chrome.

From time to time, Google might discover an add-on that poses a security threat, violates the developer terms for Chrome Web Store, or violates other legal agreements, laws, regulations, or policies. Chrome periodically downloads a list of these dangerous add-ons, in order to remotely disable or remove them from your system.
More information

Information that Google receives when you use Chrome is used and protected under the Google Privacy Policy. Information that other website operators and add-on developers receive, including cookies, is subject to the privacy policies of those websites.

Google adheres to several self regulatory frameworks, including the EU-US Privacy Shield Framework. Learn more.
Definitions
Cookies and similar technologies

A cookie is a small file containing a string of characters that is sent to your computer when you visit a website. When you visit the website again, the cookie allows that site to recognize your browser. Cookies may store user preferences and other information. You can reset your browser to refuse all cookies or to indicate when a cookie is being sent. However, some website features or services may not function properly without cookies. Other technologies are used for similar purposes as a cookie on other platforms where cookies are not available or applicable, such as the Advertising ID available on Android mobile devices. Learn more about how Google uses cookies and how Google uses data, including cookies, when you use our partners' sites or apps.
Google Account

You may access some of our services by signing up for a Google Account and providing us with some personal information (typically your name, email address and a password). This account information will be used to authenticate you when you access Google services and protect your account from unauthorized access by others. You can edit or terminate your account at any time through your Google Account settings.
Server logs

Like most websites, our servers automatically record the page requests made when you visit our sites. These "server logs" typically include your web request, Internet Protocol address, browser type, browser language, the date and time of your request and one or more cookies that may uniquely identify your browser.

Here is an example of a typical log entry where the search is for "cars", followed by a breakdown of its parts:

123.45.67.89 - 25/Mar/2003 10:15:32 - https://www.google.com/search?q=cars - Firefox 1.0.7; Windows NT 5.1 - 740674ce2123e969

    123.45.67.89 is the Internet Protocol address assigned to the user by the user’s ISP; depending on the user’s service, a different address may be assigned to the user by their service provider each time they connect to the Internet;


25/Mar/2003 10:15:32 is the date and time of the query;

https://www.google.com/search?q=cars is the requested URL, including the search query;

Firefox 1.0.7; Windows NT 5.1 is the browser and operating system being used; and

740674ce2123a969 is the unique cookie ID assigned to this particular computer the first time it visited Google. (Cookies can be deleted by users. If the user has deleted the cookie from the computer since the last time s/he visited Google, then it will be the unique cookie ID assigned to the user the next time s/he visits Google from that particular computer).


The main Google Privacy Policy describes how we treat personal information when you use Google's products and services, including Google Play. Below, we describe privacy practices specific to books on Google Play. Note that “books” in this policy refers to ebooks on Google Play and does not include audiobooks or other formats.
Practices specific to Google Play Books

The privacy practices that are specific to books on Google Play are:

    To fulfill contractual commitments to rightsholders who license us books, we enforce certain security limits (for example, to prevent abusive sharing of purchased books and to enforce page view limits on some book previews), and we also enforce limits on the numbers of browsers or devices that can access an account during a given period of time. In order to enforce limits on numbers of devices, we will store the unique ID numbers of your devices on our servers. You can delete a device ID number when you wish to stop using that device.
    You will need to have a Google Account in order to purchase books because account information is necessary to provide access to users who bought the book. We limit the information (such as books titles) we provide to credit card companies, and enable you to delete purchased books from your Google Account. However, you will not be able to delete the record of your purchase transaction (including the title of the book) from your Google Payments account history.
    If you are part of a family group on Google Play and purchase books using a family payment method, your family manager will be responsible for these purchases and will therefore see a record of your books purchases made using the family payment method, including titles and genres. Although you will be able to delete purchased books from your Google Account, you will not be able to delete the family manager's records of the purchase transactions.
    In order to enable consistent reading position across devices and provide useful navigation within a book, we store the last five pages (only) in each book a user has viewed with the user's account. We also store pages viewed for security monitoring and/or if the user elects to use the Web History service.
    Special legal privacy protections for users may apply in cases where law enforcement or civil litigants ask Google for information about what books an individual user has looked at. Some jurisdictions have special "books laws" saying that this information is not available unless the person asking for it meets a special, high standard such as proving to a court that there is a compelling need for the information, and that this need outweighs the reader's interest in reading anonymously under the United States First Amendment or other applicable laws. Where these "books laws" exist and apply to books on Google Play, we will raise them. We will also continue our strong history of fighting for high standards to protect users, regardless of whether a particular "books law" applies. In addition, we are committed to notifying the affected user if we receive such a request that may lead to disclosure of their information; if we are permitted to do so by law and if we have an effective way to contact the user, we will seek to do so in time for the user to challenge the request.

For additional information about books on Google Play and privacy, please see our FAQ.

Google Payments Privacy Notice
Last modified September 23, 2018

The Google Privacy Policy describes how we treat personal information when you use Google's products and services. Google Payments is offered to Google Account holders and your use of it is subject to the Google Privacy Policy. In addition, this Privacy Notice describes Google privacy practices that are specific to Google Payments.

Your use of Google Payments is governed by the Google Payments Terms of Service, which describes in more detail the Services covered by this Privacy Notice. Capitalized terms not defined in this Google Payments Privacy Notice shall have the meaning ascribed to them in the Google Payments Terms of Service.

The Google Payments Privacy Notice applies to Services offered by Google LLC's wholly owned subsidiaries, including Google Payment Corp. ("GPC"). Please consult the Google Payments Terms of Service made available to you within the Service to learn the subsidiary offering the Service.
Information we collect

In addition to the information listed in the Google Privacy Policy we may also collect the following:

    Registration information - When you sign up for Google Payments, you are creating a Google Payments Account that is associated with your Google Account. Depending on the Google Payments services you use, in addition to the information listed in the Google Privacy Policy, you may be asked to provide the following information: Credit or debit card number and card expiration date, bank account number and expiration date, address, phone number, date of birth, social security number or taxpayer identification number (or some other government-issued identification number), and for sellers or businesses specifically, your business category and certain information about your sales or transaction volume. In some cases, we may also ask you to send us additional information or to answer additional questions to help verify your information. Finally, if you register a Carrier or Operator Billing Account, we will ask you to provide us with certain information about your Carrier or Operator account.
    Information obtained from third parties - We may obtain information about you from third parties, including third party verification services. This includes information arising from Google Payments transactions at merchant locations, information regarding your use of payment methods and your accounts issued by third parties that are linked to the Google Payments, the identity of your card issuer or financial institution, information regarding access to balances held in your Google Payments Account, information from a Carrier or Operator in connection with Carrier or Operator Billing, and consumer reports, as the term "consumer reports" is defined by the US Fair Credit Reporting Act.

    Also, for sellers, we may obtain information about you and your business from a credit bureau or a business information service.
    Transaction information - When you use Google Payments to conduct a transaction, we may collect information about the transaction, including: Date, time and amount of the transaction, the merchant's location and description, a description provided by the seller of the goods or services purchased, any photo you choose to associate with the transaction, the names and email addresses of the seller and buyer (or sender and recipient), the type of payment method used, your description of the reason for the transaction, and the offer associated with the transaction, if any.

How we use the information we collect

In addition to the uses listed in the Google Privacy Policy, we use the information you provide to us and to GPC or other of our subsidiaries, as well as information about you from third parties, in order to provide you with Google Payments for customer service purposes, and to protect you from fraud, phishing or other misconduct. Such information may also be used to assist third parties in the provision of products or services that you request from them. We also use the information to review your Google Payments Account to determine whether you continue to meet the terms of the account, to make decisions about your future Google Payments transactions, and for other legitimate business needs related to the Google Payments transactions initiated by you.

Your registration information is stored in association with your Google Account and your registration of a payment method will be stored on Google's servers. In addition, certain data elements may also be stored on your mobile device. We may retain the information you provide for extended periods of time for the purpose of complying with legal process and regulatory obligations.
Information we share

We will only share your personal information with other companies or individuals outside of Google in the following circumstances:

    As permitted under the Google Privacy Policy.
    As necessary to process your transaction and maintain your account.
    To complete your registration for a service provided by a third party.
    To inform a third party merchant, whose site or app you visit, whether you have a Google Payments account that can be used for making payment to that merchant.

For example, when you make a purchase or transaction using Google Payments, we make certain personal information about you available to the company or individual you purchase from or transact with. This includes sharing your personal information with the developer from whom you purchased when you use Google Payments to make a purchase on Google Play. When you add a third party form of payment to your Google Payments Account, we may exchange certain personal information about you, such as your name, profile image, email, IP and billing address, phone number, device info, location, and Google Account activity info, with the third party payment provider as necessary to provide the service.

When you visit a participating merchant site or app, the merchant can check whether you have a Google Payments account with an eligible form of payment that can be used to pay the merchant, in order to reduce the likelihood that you will see unusable features on sites or apps.

Any information you provide directly to a third party merchant, website or application is not covered by this privacy notice. We are not responsible for the privacy or security practices of merchants or other third parties with whom you choose to share your personal information directly. We encourage you to review the privacy policies of any third party to whom you choose to share your personal information directly.

The information that we collect, including information obtained from third parties, is shared with our affiliates, meaning other companies owned and controlled by Google LLC. Our affiliates, which can be financial and nonfinancial entities, will use such information for their everyday business purposes.

We provide you with the right to opt out of certain sharing between GPC and its affiliates. Specifically, you may choose to opt out of:

    Sharing between GPC and its affiliates of information about your creditworthiness for their everyday business purposes; and/or,
    Our affiliates marketing their products or services to you based on your personal information that we collect and share with them. This information includes your account history with us.

You may also choose to opt out of Google LLC or its affiliates informing a third party merchant, whose site or app you visit, whether you have a Google Payments account that can be used for payment to that merchant.

If you choose to opt out, your choice will be effective until you tell us to change your choice.

If you don't want us to share personal information about your creditworthiness between GPC and its affiliates, or if you do not want our affiliates to use your personal information collected by us and shared with them to market to you, or if you do not want Google LLC or its affiliates to inform a third party merchant, whose site or app you visit, whether you have a Google Payments account that can be used for payment to that merchant, please indicate your preference by logging into your account, going to the Google Payments privacy settings page, and updating your preferences.

We will not share your personal information with anyone outside of GPC or with our affiliates except as described in this privacy notice. As explained above, Google Payments is a product offered to Google Account holders. Data you provide to Google LLC for the purpose of signing up for a Google Account is not affected by the opt-out provisions in this notice.
Information security

For more information about our security practices, please see the main Google Privacy Policy.

The security of your Google Payments Account depends on you keeping your account password(s), PINs, and other access information for the Service confidential. If you share your account information with a third party, he or she will have access to your account and your personal information.

It is your responsibility to control access to your mobile device and the Google Payments application on your device, including keeping your password(s) and/or PIN confidential and not sharing it with anyone. It is also your responsibility to alert Google or the relevant partner if you believe that the security of the information in the Google Payments application has been compromised.

© 2018 Google - Google Home Google Terms of Service Previous Privacy Notices


Google Fiber Privacy Notice

Last modified: 2016-04-07 (view archived versions)

The Google Privacy Policy applies to all of the services offered by Google Inc. and its affiliates, including Google Fiber Inc. and Google Fiber North America Inc.

This Google Fiber Privacy Notice explains some important additional things we’d like you to know about information we collect when you visit Fiber websites or when you use Google Fiber services, such as Google Fiber TV, Google Fiber Internet, and Google Fiber Phone (we call these together “Fiber”), and how we use and share that information.
Additional information we collect

To sign up for Fiber, users will be asked to provide an existing Google Account or to create a new one. You may be asked to provide additional personal information, such as billing address, service address or location, and bank account information when you sign up for Fiber.

We may also obtain information about our Fiber users from outside sources for marketing purposes (such as commercially available demographic, geographic, or interest information).

We may have a record of whether third party permission was required to install Fiber equipment for a Fiber user, as well as the third party’s name and contact information.

In order to carry out a request to watch a pay-per-view program or other on-demand content, we may collect certain personal information, such as account or billing information and information about the product or service purchased.

During the initial provisioning or installation of Fiber services, and during any subsequent changes, updates or attempts to resolve issues you bring to our attention, we may access and collect technical information from or about televisions, set-top boxes, computer and network hardware and software, modems, phone boxes, or other systems or devices used in connection with Fiber.

When you use Google Fiber Phone services, we collect and maintain your call history (including calling party phone number, called party phone number, date, time and duration of call), voicemail greetings, voicemail messages, Short Message Service (SMS) messages, recorded conversations, and other data related to your account in order to provide the service to you.
How we use information we collect

The Google Privacy Policy explains how we use information we collect. Below is further information about how we use information collected from certain Fiber services.

Google Fiber TV: All information we collect about the use of Google Fiber TV (including use of programs and applications available through Google Fiber TV) may be associated with the Google Account being used for Google Fiber TV. (When information is associated with your Google Account, we treat it as personal information.) For more information about how this may impact your Google Account, visit our Policies Support page.

Google Fiber Internet: We use technical information collected from the use of Google Fiber Internet for network management, security or maintenance purposes and may associate this information with the Google Account you use for Fiber, but such information associated with the Google Account you use for Fiber will not be used by other Google properties without your consent. Other information from the use of Google Fiber Internet (such as URLs of websites visited or content of communications) will not be associated with the Google Account you use for Fiber, except with your consent or to meet any applicable law, regulation, legal process or enforceable governmental request.

Google Fiber Phone: All information we collect about your use of Google Fiber Phone may be associated with the Google Account being used for Google Fiber Phone. (Again, when information is associated with your Google Account, we treat it as personal information.) In addition to the uses listed in the Google Privacy Policy, and the article How Google Voice works, we use the information we collect to provide your service, bill you for your service, help you troubleshoot any issues you are experiencing, verify your identity, and protect you and Google Fiber from fraud, phishing or other misconduct. As described below, some of your Google Fiber Phone information is treated as CPNI and used in accordance with federal law.

This notice does not apply to the collection and use of information from other Google services (such as Gmail or Google Search) used while connected to Google Fiber Internet – such information will be treated in accordance with applicable Google policies and terms of service.
Information we share

We do not share personal information with companies, organizations and individuals outside of Google except in the circumstances (such as with your consent, with domain administrators, for external processing and for legal reasons) as more fully set out in the Google Privacy Policy.

If you use Google Fiber Phone, your phone number may be displayed to the person you’ve called. You can find out how to block your phone number from being displayed here. We may share non-personally identifiable information publicly and with our partners – like content providers, publishers, advertisers or connected sites.
Customer Proprietary Network Information

We take our duty to protect your Customer Proprietary Network Information (“CPNI”) very seriously. Federal law requires certain voice and Internet access providers, including interconnected Voice over Internet Protocol service providers like Google Fiber Phone, to protect certain personal information that we generate or access in providing the services to you. CPNI for voice services includes, but is not limited to, call details, call location information, and information about the rates and features of the services that you use. CPNI does not include subscriber list information, such as your name, address, or phone number. We may use the information we collect about your use of Google Fiber Phone to send you information about the services in compliance with our obligations to protect your CPNI. Here are the ways we treat your CPNI associated with Google Fiber Phone:

    Securing your CPNI. We implement safeguards that are designed to protect your CPNI. We authenticate you with a password or other permissible means before we disclose any CPNI.

    Using CPNI without your additional approval is limited to specific purposes. By using the Google Fiber Phone services, you allow us to use, disclose, and permit access to your CPNI without your additional approval only for the following limited purposes:
        To provide and offer services and features among the category of services you’re purchasing from us. This includes using CPNI in the normal course of business, such as to enable billing, customer service, and troubleshooting.
        To protect our rights and property.
        To protect our users and other carriers from fraudulent, abusive, or unlawful uses of the services.
        To comply with applicable laws and legal process. For any other purpose permitted by federal law.

Except for these purposes, we will not use, disclose, or permit access to your CPNI associated with Google Fiber Phone without your additional approval.


Google Fi Privacy Notice

    The Google Privacy Policy applies to all of the services offered by Google and its affiliates, including the Services. This Google Fi Privacy Notice provides additional information about how we collect and use personal information.
    Customer Proprietary Network Information

    We take protecting your Customer Proprietary Network Information or “CPNI” very seriously.In fact, federal law requires telecommunications providers, like Google Fi, to protect certain personal information that we generate or access in providing the Services to you. CPNI includes call details, call location information, and information about the rates and features of the Services that you use. CPNI does not include your name, address, or phone number.

    Here are the ways we protect your CPNI:

        Securing your CPNI. We implement safeguards that are designed to protect your CPNI. We must authenticate you with a password or other permissible means before we disclose any CPNI.
        Using CPNI without your additional approval is limited to specific purposes. By using the Services, you allow us to use, disclose, and permit access to your CPNI without your additional approval only for the following limited purposes:
            To provide and offer services among the category of Services you’re purchasing from us. This includes using CPNI in the normal course of business, such as to enable billing, customer service, and troubleshooting. This also includes related features such as call blocking, call return, repeat dialing, call waiting, caller ID, and call forwarding.
            To provide information services, such as Internet access and voicemail.
            To protect our rights and property.
            To protect our users and other carriers from fraudulent, abusive, or unlawful uses of the Services.
            Comply with applicable laws and legal process.
            Any other purpose permitted by federal law.
        Using CPNI after you choose to opt-in (by default you are opted out). From time to time, we may want to provide you information about Google communications-related services that are not among the category of services that you’re already purchasing from us. You can opt in to receiving this information. You are not required to opt in and your decision not to opt in will not adversely affect how we provide you the Services that you’re purchasing from us. Only if you opt in may we use your CPNI to market you Google communications-related services and share your CPNI with our affiliates and agents in order to provide you those services. Once you opt in, that opt in remains in effect until you affirmatively revoke your opt in or cancel the Services. Learn more about how to manage your opt-in here.
        Using CPNI with your additional approval. Except as provided above, we will not use, disclose, or permit access to your CPNI without your additional approval.

    Information we collect

    In providing the Services to you, we may collect other information in addition to CPNI.However, our use of that information is also limited to specific purposes related to the Services. We may collect information listed in the Google Privacy Policy as well as information related to the Services such as:

    Account information. You may be asked to provide additional personal information, such as billing address, service address, or location. Also, in order to prevent unauthorized access to your account, we may require you to provide an email address, account password, and answers to security questions associated with your account before providing information to you about your account. In some cases, we may ask you to provide additional information to verify your identity.

    Network and Device Information. We may collect information about your use of your mobile devices, our network, and the Services. This information includes:

        Usage Information. In providing Services to you, we maintain information about your calls, texts, and data usage, connectivity status, and information about the quantity, technical configuration, and type of the Services you use, as well as some other information found on your bill.
        Device Performance Information. We may collect information about the performance of the devices you use with the Services, such as any failure of the device to connect with our network, dropped calls, and battery usage.
        Location Data. When your device is turned on or when you use the Services, we may collect and process information about your actual location. This may include information about your current activity (e.g., driving, running, walking, etc.), which lets us know when you may be moving between different mobile and Wi-Fi networks.
        Wi-Fi Access. We may collect information about your usage of Wi-Fi services, the Wi-Fi networks that you use, and Wi-Fi networks that may be available to you. This may include information about the credentials you use to connect to Wi-Fi networks.

    Pay Monthly Device Plan Information. When you apply to purchase a device on the Pay Monthly Device Plan, we may collect information you provide us in connection with that application, such as your name, address, date of birth, Social Security number, or other information. We may ask you to send us additional information or to answer additional questions to help verify your identity. We may obtain information about you from a credit bureau or other data broker to determine if you meet our minimum requirements to qualify for the Pay Monthly Device Plan.

    Marketing Information. We may obtain and use information (such as commercially available demographic, geographic, or interest information) about our users from outside sources for the purposes of marketing Google Fi.
    How we use the information we collect

    In addition to the uses listed in the Google Privacy Policy, we use the information we collect to:

        Provide you the Services and enable your purchase of devices.
        Manage your access to the mobile networks and Wi-Fi networks available to you.
        Bill you and collect payment for the Services and devices that you purchased.
        Help you troubleshoot any issues you are experiencing with the Services, your device purchases, or your account.
        Verify your identity.
        Protect you or Google from fraud, phishing, or other misconduct.
        Send you information about the Services and the Pay Monthly Device Plan and offer you additional Google or Google Fi products and services in compliance with our obligations to protect your CPNI.
        If you apply to purchase a device under the Pay Monthly Device Plan, we review your information, including your credit information, to determine if you qualify for the Pay Monthly Device Plan.

    How we share information
    Sharing with third parties

    We will only share your personal information with other companies or individuals outside of Google Fi and our affiliates in the following circumstances:

        As permitted under the Google Privacy Policy.
        We may provide personal information to our trusted businesses or persons to provide you the Services based on our instructions and in compliance with the Google Fi Privacy Notice and any other appropriate confidentiality and security measures.
        If you applied to purchase a device on the Pay Monthly Device Plan, we may share certain information with a credit bureau or other data broker to obtain your credit information.

    Sharing with our affiliates.

    We share information with our affiliates, including Google LLC, to:

        Provide you the Services.
        Process your purchase of devices.
        Bill you and collect payment for the Services and devices that you purchased.
        Help you troubleshoot any issues you are experiencing with the Services, your device purchases, or your account.
        Verify your identity.
        Protect you or Google from fraud, phishing, or other misconduct.

    A few things to keep in mind
    Information you may be sharing when you make phone calls

    When you place calls using the Services, your phone number may be displayed to the person you’ve called. If you do not wish to have your phone number displayed, you may choose to block the display of your phone number by dialing *67 prior to dialing the number of the person you wish to call. Blocking your phone number information in this manner does not prevent the display of your information when you dial certain business numbers, including 911 or toll-free numbers.
    Information you may be sharing when you use the Internet

    When you browse the Internet, use mobile applications, or otherwise access the Internet, the Mobile Directory Number (“MDN”) assigned to your mobile device and/or other device-specific information may be transmitted over the Internet. It is possible that third parties can use the MDN and other information to identify your device.


G Suite for Education Privacy Notice

This Privacy Notice is meant to help G Suite for Education users and parents understand what data we collect, why we collect it, and what we do with it. This Notice includes information about our privacy practices that are specific to G Suite for Education and summarizes the most relevant portions of the Google Privacy Policy, which provides additional examples and explanations that may be useful. We hope you will take the time to read this Notice and the Google Privacy Policy, which both apply to G Suite for Education accounts.
Information we collect

A G Suite for Education account is a Google Account created and managed by a school for use by students and educators. When creating this account, the school may provide Google with certain personal information about its students and educators, which includes a user’s name, email address, and password in most cases, but could also include secondary email, phone, and address if the school chooses to provide that information. Google may also collect personal information directly from users of G Suite for Education accounts, such as telephone number, profile photo or other information they add to a G Suite for Education account.

Google also collects information based on the use of our services. This includes:

    device information, such as the hardware model, operating system version, unique device identifiers, and mobile network information including phone number of the user;
    log information, including details of how a user used our service, device event information, and the user's Internet protocol (IP) address;
    location information, as determined by various technologies including IP address, GPS, and other sensors;
    unique application numbers, such as application version number; and
    cookies or similar technologies which are used to collect and store information about a browser or device, such as preferred language and other settings.

How we use information we collect

    In G Suite for Education Core Services
    The G Suite for Education Core Services (“Core Services”) are listed in the Services Summary and include Gmail, Calendar, Classroom, Contacts, Drive, Docs, Forms, Groups, Sheets, Sites, Slides, Talk/Hangouts, Vault, and Chrome Sync. These services are provided to a school under its G Suite for Education agreement and, as applicable, Data Processing Amendment. (Users and parents can ask their school if it has accepted the Data Processing Amendment.)
    User personal information collected in the Core Services is used only to provide the Core Services. Google does not serve ads in the Core Services or use personal information collected in the Core Services for advertising purposes.
    In Google services generally
    Besides the Core Services, G Suite for Education users may have access to other Google services that we make generally available for consumers, such as Google Maps, Blogger, and YouTube. We call these “Additional Services” since they are outside of the Core Services.
    The Google Privacy Policy describes fully how Google services generally use information, including for G Suite for Education users. To summarize, we use the information we collect from all of our services to provide, maintain, protect and improve them, to develop new ones, and to protect Google and our users. We also use this information to offer users tailored content, such as more relevant search results. We may combine personal information from one service with information, including personal information, from other Google services.
    Google may serve ads to G Suite for Education users in the Additional Services. For G Suite for Education users in primary and secondary (K-12) schools, Google does not use any user personal information (or any information associated with a G Suite for Education Account) to target ads, whether in Core Services or other Google services accessed while using a G Suite for Education account.

Learn more about Core and Additional Services for G Suite for Education users.
Information users share

A school may allow students to access Google services such as Google Docs and Sites, which include features where users can share information with others or publicly. When users share information publicly, it may be indexable by search engines, including Google. Our services provide users with various options for sharing and removing content.
Information we share

Information we collect may be shared outside of Google in limited circumstances. We do not share personal information with companies, organizations and individuals outside of Google unless one of the following circumstances applies:

    With user consent. We will share personal information with companies, organizations or individuals outside of Google when we have user consent or parents’ consent (as applicable).
    With G Suite for Education administrators. G Suite for Education administrators have access to information stored in the Google Accounts of users in that school or domain.
    For external processing. We provide personal information to our affiliates or other trusted businesses or persons to process it for us, based on our instructions and in compliance with our Privacy Policy and any other appropriate confidentiality and security measures.
    For legal reasons. We will share personal information with companies, organizations or individuals outside of Google if we have a good-faith belief that access, use, preservation or disclosure of the information is reasonably necessary to:

    meet any applicable law, regulation, legal process or enforceable governmental request.
    enforce applicable Terms of Service, including investigation of potential violations.
    detect, prevent, or otherwise address fraud, security or technical issues.
    protect against harm to the rights, property or safety of Google, our users or the public as required or permitted by law.

We may share non-personal information publicly and with our partners – like publishers or connected sites. For example, we may share information publicly to show trends about the general use of our services.
Transparency and choice

We provide a variety of user controls that enable G Suite for Education users to make meaningful choices about how information is used in Google services. Depending on the settings enabled by the school, users can use the various controls described in the Privacy Policy, such as Google activity controls, to manage their privacy and information. We provide additional information for parents, students, and administrators on the G Suite for Education Privacy Center.
Parental review and deletion of information

The parents of G Suite for Education users in Primary/Secondary (K-12) schools can access their child’s personal information or request that it be deleted through the school administrator. School administrators can provide for parental access and deletion of personal information consistent with the functionality of our services. If a parent wishes to stop any further collection or use of the child's information, the parent can request that the administrator use the service controls available to them to limit the child’s access to features or services, or delete the child’s account entirely. Guidance for administrators on how to use service controls to accomplish this is available in the G Suite Help Center.
Interpretation of conflicting terms

This Notice is intended to provide the key information about our collection and use of data for G Suite for Education users, and is consistent with the Google Privacy Policy and the G Suite for Education agreement, which provide additional examples and explanations that may be useful. Where there are terms that differ, as with the limitations on advertising in G Suite for Education, the G Suite for Education agreement (as amended) takes precedence, followed by this Privacy Notice and then the Google Privacy Policy.
Contact us

If you have questions about management of G Suite for Education accounts or use of personal information by a school, please contact the G Suite for Education account administrator. If you have questions about our practices, please visit the G Suite for Education Privacy Center. Also see our Privacy Troubleshooter for more questions about privacy and Google’s products and services. G Suite for Education administrators can contact Google about the information in this Notice by submitting the contact form while signed in to their administrator account. Parents can also contact Google about the information in this Notice.

Google

1600 Amphitheatre Parkway, Mountain View, CA 94043 USA

Phone: +1 650-253-0000
